Bad air caused by the Bobcat fire and the El Dorado fire in San Bernardino County also continues to be a problem. Three COVID-19 testing sites in L.A. County will be closed Tuesday because of smoke, and a smoke advisory from the South Coast Air Quality Management District will remain in effect throughout the day.

LOS ANGELES, CA - SEPTEMBER 14: An aerial view of Dodger Stadium, downtown Los Angeles skyline and sunset is obscured by smoke, ash and smog Monday, Sept. 14, 2020 in Los Angeles. Wildfires are choking California's skies with smoke, littering cities with ash, creating dangerous levels in regional air quality and transforming the sun at times into an ominous red orb. (Allen J. Schaben / Los Angeles Times)
CALIFORNIA

Smoke from California wildfires reaches the East Coast and Europe

Sep. 15, 2020

Air quality readings in Los Angeles remain in the 150-200 range, which is considered unhealthful by the Environmental Protection Agency.

“There has been a strong smell of smoke for a few days now, and it definitely feels highly unhealthy to be outside right now,” said 10-year West Hollywood resident Pascal Guyon.

“L.A. has, on average, already had a higher level of air pollution than lots of other major cities,” Guyon said. “Getting too often to worrisome levels of air pollution would definitely get me to move out of this city.”

Angelenos eager to get outside may be wondering how much they can push the limits when it comes to air quality. EPA officials said it’s important to rely on official readings, but also to listen to your body.

“It’s about how you feel as a person because we all react differently to wildfire smoke,” said Meredith Kurpius, an air manager from EPA’s Region 9 Office. “Perhaps you go outside when it’s ‘orange’ and you feel symptomatic. ... You would want to curtail your exertion and your outdoor activity at that time.”

But EPA experts also said people should start taking precautions once readings passed 150, and noted that less strenuous activities, such as walking instead of running, could help reduce the risk of heavier breathing, which leads to sucking in more unhealthful air.

LOS ANGELES, CA - SEPTEMBER 09: A person walks along the First Street Bridge as a layer of smoke from nearby fires hovers east of downtown on Wednesday, Sept. 9, 2020 in Los Angeles, CA. With so many fires burning, millions of people in the Bay Area, Central Valley and parts of Southern California are breathing dangerous levels of particle pollution. Photo taken from the First Street Bridge. (Gary Coronado / Los Angeles Times)
CLIMATE & ENVIRONMENT

Your questions about air quality answered

Sep. 15, 2020

“On some level, it’s a personal choice,” EPA environmental scientist Kathleen Stewart said. “But once you’re in the ‘red’ category, especially if you’re making a choice for kids, you would want to know that you are exposing them to a level that is not necessarily healthy for them.”

Some improvement to the air quality in areas farther away from the fire is expected Tuesday, thanks to south winds, but smoke will likely be trapped in valleys and basins into the night.

The continuation of southerly winds Wednesday should also help to improve conditions, the Forest Service said, although “communities north of the fires are not expected to see improvement.”