41. Campaign Zero

Donating to this organization helps "support advocacy for policy solutions to end police violence in America."

42. The National Black Justice Coalition

This civil rights organization is “dedicated to empowering Black lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender people.”

43. Emergency Release Fund

100% of your donations to this group is used to “post bail for trans persons at risk of injury and death.”

44. The African American Police Forum

You can support this social justice think tank by giving donations to several campaigns and projects, including #SayHerName, #HerDreamDeferred, Breaking the Silence Summer Camp and National #BreakingSilence Town Hall Series.

45. Southern Poverty Law Center

Donations help “win justice on behalf of those who have no other champion, expose and fight the hate that thrives in our country, and provide tolerance education materials free of charge to schools across our nation.”


Provide resources for protesters, local communities
46. Women for Political Change

The nonpartisan University of Minnesota student group is collecting donations for protesters. See the Facebook page for details. 

47. Hunger Solutions

You can help provide basics for protesters and affected communities. This Minnesota-based organization works to end hunger statewide and collaborates with state and local government to "advance programs that tackle hunger on the large scale."

48. The ACLU has a helpful guide for knowing your rights if you're organizing a protest.

Going to protest George Floyd's death?:Here's how to protect yourself against tear gas, pepper spray

49. Thresholds provides “housing, health care, and hope for persons with mental illnesses and substance use disorders in Illinois.” They accept online donations.

50. Food bank donations are crucial. Food Finder and Feeding America are helpful places to narrow your search for local food banks.

51. Donate to local homeless shelter 

With curfews in effect in some major cities and protests filling the streets, communities of people experiencing homelessness can be displaced. Search for and donate to local shelters and organizations – there are even charities that will pick up your donations for free.

52. Help clean up communities that have seen large protests. Check local community news sites for details on clean-up. Here is an example in Chicago.

Volunteer
53. Get involved with your local Black Lives Matter chapter.

54. Volunteer online with the United Nations and their "Let's Fight Racism" initiative.

55. Volunteer atERASE Racism (Long Island-based).

56. Volunteer with Rock the Vote to help people register to vote.


Learn ways to be actively anti-racist
57. Combat microaggressions in the workplace

A  microaggression, which is defined by Merriam Webster as "a comment or action that subtly and often unconsciously or unintentionally expresses a prejudiced attitude toward a member of a marginalized group," can cause harm in workplace environments. Addressing these statements directly can help people realize the real meaning behind their "jokes" and comments.

58. Work to eliminate hiring bias in the workplace

Katherine McNamee, the HR director at the American Alliance of Museums, offers tips at www.shrm.org, search eliminate racism.  

59. Engage in productive discussions in the workplace

Arranging meetings to continue discussions around workplace equality beyond one-time training is a good idea, according to SHRM’s Arlene Hirsch. “Training is not a silver bullet; it's the beginning of an ongoing discussion,” Hirsch writes.



