9. Nidra Deep Rest Eye Mask
Best gifts of 2020: Nidra Sleep Mask
Best gifts of 2020: Nidra Sleep Mask (Photo: Reviewed / Jackson Ruckar)

While we might be traveling as much as usual, anyone could use a sleep masks to catch some mid-day shuteye while they're quarantined with their family. Our editor described the Nidra Deep Rest Eye Mask as "like having personal blackout curtains for your eyes," which is why we named it the best contoured sleep mask we've ever tested. Because it's contoured, light won't sneak in, meaning sweet dreams no matter the time of day.

Get the Nidra Deep Rest Eye Mask at Amazon for $13.95

10. Eufy RoboVac 11S
Best gifts of 2020: Eufy RoboVac 11S.
Best gifts of 2020: Eufy RoboVac 11S. (Photo: Eufy)

These days were spending more time at home than ever before드nd spending more time noticing how dirty our floors actually are. Give your giftee the gift of clean floors without lifting a finger with a robot vacuum. The Eufy RoboVac 11s is our favorite affordable robot vacuum because of its impressive dirt pickup and quiet operation. The slim profile also makes it easier to reach every nook and cranny, and since it's reasonably priced, you can splurge a little on your loved one.

Get the Eufy Robovac 11S at Amazon for $159.99

11. MasterClass Subscription
Best gifts of 2020: MasterClass Subscription.
Best gifts of 2020: MasterClass Subscription. (Photo: MasterClass)

The person who seemingly has everything might love to learn a new skill in leu of a physical gift. MasterClass offers virtual classes from famous celebrities on pretty much every topic, like cooking with Gordon Ramsay, basketball with Steph Curry, or acting with Natalie Portman. Our editor-in-chief has used MasterClass himself and says the classes are inspiring, interesting, and, most importantly, self-paced, so they can do it whenever they have free time.

Give an All-Access Pass from MasterClass for $15 per month

12. Echo Show 5
Best gifts of 2020: Echo Show 5
Best gifts of 2020: Echo Show 5 (Photo: Amazon)

Smart assistants are still as popular as ever, but some seriously take up too much counter space. The Echo Show 5 provides a compact design with the bonus of a screen. It's basically a smaller, more affordable affordable version of the full Show and the next level up from the Dot. The small screen makes it easy to see timers, get news updates, and make video calls, so you can chat "face-to-face" with your giftee.

Get the Echo Show 5 from Amazon for $69.99

13. Dash Rapid Egg Cooker
Best gifts of 2020: Dash Rapid Egg Cooker.
Best gifts of 2020: Dash Rapid Egg Cooker. (Photo: Dash)

The Dash Rapid Egg Cooker is perfect for anyone who has difficulty cooking eggs or claims they don't have enough time to make breakfast든ven while they're working from home. This egg cooker makes breakfast a cinch can soft boil, hard boil, scramble, and poach드ll in one machine. Plus, we tried it and it actually works. It's the perfect gift for a college student in a dorm or anyone who wants to free up burner space when they're making Sunday brunch.

Get the Dash Rapid Egg Cooker at Amazon for $14.95

14. Revlon One-Step Hair Dryer and Volumizer
Best gifts of 2020: Revlon One Step Hair Dryer
Best gifts of 2020: Revlon One Step Hair Dryer (Photo: Reviewed / Betsey Goldwasser)

While a high-end hair dryer is a thoughtful gift, most beauty lovers (or anyone with long hair) will be excited to receive the Revlon One-Step Hair Dryer and Volumizer. This cult-favorite hair dryer brush has more than 75,000 reviews and a 4.4-star rating on Amazon. It's that popular. Our beauty expert tried it out to see if it lives up to the hype, and, boy, it does. Not only did it dry her wavy hair straight with some voluminous flips, but it did it in just 30 minutes. Plus, it only costs less than $50드 fraction of an expensive luxury hair dryer.

Get the Revlon One-Step Hair Dryer and Volumizer at Amazon for $41.99 