Anderson is most concerned about the nearly 100-year-old dormitory, known as the Monastery, where astronomers would sleep during the day before working the night shift at the observatories.

“The Monastery is perched on a ridge, a finger of granite, that is exposed on three sides with steep walls,” he said. “That whole ridge down to the Monastery could easily to be lost without fire suppressant on it. The home of the 20th century’s most celebrated astronomers is on the line.”

Additional personnel have been added to the fire crew, which has been stymied by the aggressive, fuel-driven blaze for days, but the fire crossed the contingency line and was burning along the east side of Little Santa Anita Canyon — the closest it had been to the observatory and threatened communities, Dantic said.

“We were in the process of making a containment line around the whole fire, but unfortunately, with the steep terrain and the fuel there, the fire got over a contingency line that we were trying to make,” he said.

Contingency and containment lines are barriers made by bulldozers and hand crews that help reduce fire fuel, but they’re not foolproof.

“When flame lengths get so big,” Dantic said, “there’s always the possibility of an ember starting another fire outside of the containment line.”


In the forest’s Big Santa Anita Canyon, officials said they feared 80 historic cabins, along with the 1893-built Sturtevant Camp, might have been burned as flames swept through the area Sunday and Monday.

“These are historic buildings made of wood and rock and preserved as such under Forest Service rules,” said Ben Fitzsimmons, president of Big Santa Anita Canyon Permittees Assn. “It is unlikely that this 100-year-old community has survived unscathed.”

Fitzsimmons said he didn’t know the extent of damage in the area but mourned the possibility that many of the historic structures “may no longer exist.”

The cabins, built between 1907 and 1936, are not typical real estate. Owners are issued a “special use permit” to lease the land from the U.S. Forest Service, according to the group’s website. Cabins can’t be purchased using a mortgage, and owners can’t use them as their primary place of residence.

The result, Fitzsimmons said, is a small, close-knit community of people who often spend every weekend together — people who “gather to work on each other’s cabins and socialize together, bonded by our shared experience and love for this unique place that has been a community since the early 1900s.”

Dantic, the L.A. County fire captain, couldn’t confirm whether the fire had reached the Big Santa Anita cabins, but community members braced for bad news.

“We think we lost most of it,” said Deb Burgess, a cabin owner.

Burgess was doubtful that the Forest Service would allow any burned cabins to be rebuilt, noting that she was previously told that structures more than 50% destroyed could not be rebuilt. Even small work on the cabins must follow strict guidelines about materials, size and other historic characteristics.

As the fire continues to move toward foothill neighborhoods, evacuation orders for residents north of Elkins Avenue and east of Santa Anita Avenue in Arcadia and Sierra Madre remain in place, as do evacuation warnings for residents north of Foothill Boulevard.

