It's definitely a different Toronto International Film Festival than usual, with a couch and a Keurig taking the place of theater seats and a coffeehouse stop.

In a year when everything in the movie industry has had to scramble amid COVID-19, Toronto (running through Sept. 19) is the biggest of the A-list film festivals to go virtual, with a reduced slate of movies for an event that's considered one of the biggest kickoffs for Oscar season. Still, you can't ignore its cache, even in a very strange 2020: The last five best-picture winners all played Toronto, so it might be the place that (at least virtually) launches, say, Chloe Zhao's road drama "Nomadland" (starring Frances McDormand) or Francis Lee's lesbian romance "Ammonite" (with Kate Winslet and Saoirse Ronan) into Academy Awards consideration. 


Save a seat for Frances McDormand:New drama 'Nomadland' is Oscar-ready

'Penguin Bloom':Naomi Watts was 'the most nervous' acting with birds

Like last year but with way more WiFi involved, we’re going to be keeping readers up to date with reaction to all the major films and hidden gems we’re seeing. (And, yep, because we love to rank things, we’re doing that, too.)

Jude Law stars as a Londoner who finds himself on an English island where the townsfolk have some serious strange customs in HBO's psychological-thriller miniseries "The Third Day."
21. ‘The Third Day’
Watching only the first and fourth parts of a six-hour HBO horror/mystery miniseries is indeed a puzzling endeavor. What “The Third Day,” premiering at the fest before dropping on HBO Sept. 14, does do well is tease creepy atmospherics and an island that plays like the British version of that “Midsommar” nightmare locale. Sam (Jude Law) saves a suicidal girl and takes her back to her island home, where a weird summer festival is going on, while Helen (Naomie Harris) takes a trip there with her daughters but has come for other reasons than a vacation. With an online theatrical element planned as well, “Third Day” at least offers a decent start to a high-concept fright fest.

Jessica Barden plays a teen in a working-class Ohio town weighing plans for the future in the drama "Holler."
20. 'Holler'
Executive produced by Paul Feig and written and directed by former Marine Nicole Riegel, the bleak working-class narrative showcases elements of crime thriller and coming-of-age drama. Jessica Barden impresses as Ruth, a smart teen girl who tries to raise enough money to go to college – and escape her Southern Ohio hometown – by joining a sketchy scrapyard crew with her older brother (Gus Halper). With their mom (Pamela Adlon) in jail, they steal metal from shut-down factories and plants by night. and when the situation becomes dangerous, Ruth has to weigh a potentially bright future vs. staying put with her family. 

A scrappy group has to fight their way out of a zombie-infested government building in the Taiwanese horror comedy "Get the Hell Out."
19. 'Get the Hell Out'
Do you appreciate pro wrestling, oddball romances, zombie apocalypses, “Three Stooges” slapstick, kung fu flicks, and just buckets and buckets of blood? Well, throw that all in a blender and hit the “wacky” button for this Taiwanese horror comedy. Kicked out of parliament because of her two-fisted political style, Hsiung (Megan Lai) wants to stop a toxic plant from overrunning her home and enlists lovesick security guard Wang (Bruce Ho) to be her dude on the inside. A rabies virus gets loose in the government building, turning victims into the red-eyed undead, so our heroes have to fight their way out in a situation that proudly grows exponentially more ridiculous by the minute.

A paleontologist (Kate Winslet, left) and a wealthy young wife (Saoirse Ronan) fall in love in the romance "Ammonite."
