One night when his hunger was unbearable, he heard Allied Forces planes flying over the camp. "When that happened, all the lights go out in the camp," he said. He snuck to the kitchen to get food. He avoided being seen by the guards, but on the way back, other prisoners attacked him, taking the potato he managed to steal and one of his shoes.   

The next day, it snowed.   

"I couldn't walk,” said Gross, adding that a guard threatened to shoot him if he didn’t join the others and work that day.   

So he jumped in the snow, careful to not let his toes freeze.  

“Whatever life gave me, I just tried to deal with it. Instead of feeling sorry for myself. That's how I did everything; that's how I survived it,” said Gross, who was eventually able to negotiate with another prisoner to get a pair of shoes that fit.  

Ernie Gross, right, and his first wife, Bella, who also was a Holocaust survivor. Neither ever spoke of their experiences, but after Bella's death, Ernie Gross realized he needed to share his story.
'No longer felt pain'
His daily work was grueling, hauling 50-pound bags of cement to trucks.   

"When I put it on my shoulder, it felt like my bones would break, but the guards would yell ‘Mach schnell,’ meaning 'Do it faster,’ Gross said.    

If they didn’t move fast enough, the guards would beat them.    

“It got to a point where my body didn’t feel the pain ... You’d be surprised at what your body could take when you have to. It went on for eight hours like this every day.”   


He felt the despair of others, too. One day, marching next to two other prisoners, a man questioned the existence of God.  

“He said, ‘If I survive this, I’m not going to believe in God. I said, ‘Why not?’ He said, ‘Two days ago, I had a wife and 10-year-old son ... Both are gone. How could God do something like that?’  A man to my left overheard this and said, ‘I never believed in God, but If survive, I'm going to believe in God.’ Everyone had a different way about thinking about God.”  

Camp 7
The day came when Gross was too weak to work. His weight had dropped from 145 pounds to 85 pounds. He was moved to Camp 7. He knew what that meant. 

Gross, then 16, was forced onto another train, this time headed to Dachau. It was supposed to arrive a day earlier, on April 28, but Allied Forces bombings stalled the journey by a day.

When he stepped off the train, he was among thousands of inmates inching their way in the direction of Dachau. He remembers the struggle to stay on his feet, marching in the cold drizzle, his soaked clothes weighing on his frail body.   

As he began to accept his fate, the line suddenly stopped.   

He looked up and saw an American Jeep, with four American soldiers at the gate. American troops had arrived to liberate the camp. It was April 29, 1945.     

His next memory was waking up a sanitarium, where prisoners were sent to recover. There was a room dedicated for prayer services, and while inside that room one day praying, the door flew open. His older brother Abraham was standing there.   


