Help explain race to kids with these children's books
Talking to kids about complex world issues can be tough, but these books can help young people learn in a gentle, thoughtful way.

"I’ve seen a surge in different books to help with this situation," Ashay By the Bay founder and CEO Deborah Day told USA TODAY. "There’s a lot going on… Children need storybooks and they need the parents to sometimes sit down and read with them. That’s just that closeness – that opportunity is a great way to begin the healing process."

For preschool and elementary school-age kids, Dr. Tatum recommends sharing "Something Happened in Our Town" by Marianne Celano, Marietta Collins and Ann Hazzard. For teenagers, Angie Thomas' "The Hate U Give" is a good place to start, she told USA TODAY. 

Best-selling stories to help younger kids: 

"The Colors of Us" by Karen Katz
"Let’s Talk About Race" by Julius Lester
"The Skin I’m In: A First Look at Racism" by Pat Thomas
Sesame Street's "We're Different, We're the Same" by Bobbi Jane Kates
"Something Happened in Our Town: A Child’s Story about Racial Injustice" by Marianne Celano, Marietta Collins, and Ann Hazzard
"I Am Enough" by Grace Byers
"Happy in Our Skin" by Fran Manushkin and Lauren Tobia
"Voice of Freedom: Fannie Lou Hamer: The Spirit of the Civil Rights Movement" by Carole Boston Weatherford and Ekua Holmes
"Raising White Kids: Bringing Up Children in a Racially Unjust America" by Jennifer Harvey
"Daddy Why Am I Brown?: A healthy conversation about skin color and family" by Bedford F. Palmer
"A Terrible Thing Happened" by Margaret Holmes
“Antiracist Baby" by Ibram X. Kendi
For teens: 

"The Hate U Give" by Angie Thomas
"Harbor Me" by Jacqueline Woodson
"This Book Is Anti-Racist: 20 Lessons on How to Wake Up, Take Action, and Do The Work" by Tiffany Jewell and Aurelia Durand
"Brown Girl Dreaming" by Jacqueline Woodson
"Dear White People" by Justin Simien
"The Black Kids" by Christina Hammonds Reed
"Dear Martin" by Nic Stone
"All American Boys" by Jason Reynolds
"The Black Flamingo" by Dean Atta

'First look for sameness':Kristen Bell's new children's book urges kids, adults to focus on commonality

Black-owned bookstores to support
Bigger retailers may be selling out of the book you're interested – but don't forget about local shops! These bookstores run by Black owners also offer a slew of titles if you're looking to shop local. 

Mahogany Books:Bookstore based in Washington, D.C. 

Ashay By The Bay: San Francisco Bay Area kids bookstore

Harriett's Bookshop: Philadelphia-based store named after Harriett Tubman


Semicolon Bookstore: Chicago's only Black woman-owned independent bookstore

The Lit Bar:Bronx-based bookstore and wine bar

Sister's Uptown Bookstore: Family owned and operated bookstore and community space in Manhattan

Sankofa: Washington, D.C.-based bookstore that celebrates Pan-African culture and offers book clubs and children's events

Hakim's Bookstore: Philadelphia's first and oldest African American bookstore specializing in Black history

Cafe con Libros: Feminist, independent bookstore based in Brooklyn, New York

More:Inside historic Black bookstores' fight for survival against the COVID-19 pandemic

Contributing: Sara M. Moniuszko, USA TODAY. 



