Formal methods
Main article: Formal methods
Formal methods are a particular kind of mathematically based technique for the specification, development and verification of software and hardware systems.[63] The use of formal methods for software and hardware design is motivated by the expectation that, as in other engineering disciplines, performing appropriate mathematical analysis can contribute to the reliability and robustness of a design. They form an important theoretical underpinning for software engineering, especially where safety or security is involved. Formal methods are a useful adjunct to software testing since they help avoid errors and can also give a framework for testing. For industrial use, tool support is required. However, the high cost of using formal methods means that they are usually only used in the development of high-integrity and life-critical systems, where safety or security is of utmost importance. Formal methods are best described as the application of a fairly broad variety of theoretical computer science fundamentals, in particular logic calculi, formal languages, automata theory, and program semantics, but also type systems and algebraic data types to problems in software and hardware specification and verification.

Prop-tableau-1.svg	Coq plus comm screenshot.jpg
Formal verification	Automated theorem proving
Computer systems
Computer architecture and computer engineering
Main articles: Computer architecture and Computer engineering
Computer architecture, or digital computer organization, is the conceptual design and fundamental operational structure of a computer system. It focuses largely on the way by which the central processing unit performs internally and accesses addresses in memory.[64] The field often involves disciplines of computer engineering and electrical engineering, selecting and interconnecting hardware components to create computers that meet functional, performance, and cost goals.

ABasicComputer.gif	Fivestagespipeline.png	SIMD.svg
Processor	Microarchitecture	Multiprocessing
Roomba original.jpg	Flowchart.png	Operating system placement.svg
Ubiquitous computing	Systems architecture	Operating systems
Computer performance analysis
Main articles: Computer performance and Benchmark (computing)
Computer performance analysis is the study of work flowing through computers with the general goals of improving throughput, controlling response time, using resources efficiently, eliminating bottlenecks, and predicting performance under anticipated peak loads.[65] Benchmarks are used to compare the performance of systems carrying different chips and/or system architectures.[66]

Concurrent, parallel and distributed systems
Main articles: Concurrency (computer science) and Distributed computing
Concurrency is a property of systems in which several computations are executing simultaneously, and potentially interacting with each other.[67] A number of mathematical models have been developed for general concurrent computation including Petri nets, process calculi and the Parallel Random Access Machine model.[68] When multiple computers are connected in a network while using concurrency, this is known as a distributed system. Computers within that distributed system have their own private memory, and information can be exchanged to achieve common goals.[69]

Computer networks
Main article: Computer network
This branch of computer science aims to manage networks between computers worldwide

Computer security and cryptography
Main articles: Computer security and Cryptography
Computer security is a branch of computer technology with an objective of protecting information from unauthorized access, disruption, or modification while maintaining the accessibility and usability of the system for its intended users. Cryptography is the practice and study of hiding (encryption) and therefore deciphering (decryption) information. Modern cryptography is largely related to computer science, for many encryption and decryption algorithms are based on their computational complexity.

Databases
Main article: Database
Wiki letter w.svg
This article is missing information about a structured set of data held in a computer, especially one that is accessible in various ways.. Please expand the article to include this information. Further details may exist on the talk page. (September 2018)
A database is intended to organize, store, and retrieve large amounts of data easily. Digital databases are managed using database management systems to store, create, maintain, and search data, through database models and query languages.

Computer applications
Computer graphics and visualization
Main article: Computer graphics (computer science)
Computer graphics is the study of digital visual contents and involves the synthesis and manipulation of image data. The study is connected to many other fields in computer science, including computer vision, image processing, and computational geometry, and is heavily applied in the fields of special effects and video games.