The timeline for a coronavirus vaccine gets murkier by the day as political leaders and pharmaceutical companies can't seem to agree on when a COVID-19 vaccine will be ready for public use. 

President Donald Trump said on Fox & Friends Tuesday morning that a coronavirus vaccine could be ready "in a matter of weeks." Pfizer CEO Albert Bourla told CBS News the company will know if its candidate vaccine works by the end of October. And the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention said a vaccine could be ready for public use in November or December, according to state TV. 

Billionaire philanthropist Bill Gates said Tuesday he sees a slim chance drugmakers might get enough data by the end of October to apply for emergency approval for their COVID-19 vaccines, the Associated Press reported. But he expressed confidence that several vaccines would get approval by the beginning of 2021.


Meanwhile, Northeastern University researchers found if a COVID-19 vaccine was hoarded by rich countries instead of distributed equally based on population proportions, it could cause twice as many coronavirus deaths. 

Some significant developments:

House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said Tuesday the House will stay in session until a breakthrough is made on a coronavirus stimulus bill. 
The University of Missouri in Columbia said Tuesday two students have been expelled and three suspended for violating coronavirus-related regulations.
U.S. Customs and Border Protection officers seized 500,000 counterfeit N-95 respirator masks bound for New Jersey from China.
Researchers at UCLA say the coronavirus may have been in the country as early as December, weeks before U.S. health officials announced the nation's first case.
Travelers from California and five other states will no longer have to quarantine upon arriving in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut.
Holiday sales are expected to increase between 1% and 1.5% from Nov. to Jan. as compared to last year because of the pandemic.

?? Today's numbers: New case records were set in North Dakota, Wisconsin and Wyoming, according to a USA TODAY analysis of Johns Hopkins data through late Monday. Record numbers of deaths were reported in Kansas, Montana, North Dakota, Tennessee and Guam. The U.S. has reported more than 6.5 million cases and more than 195,000 deaths. Globally, there have been more than 29 million cases and more than 930,000 fatalities.

Get the Coronavirus Watch newsletter in your inbox.
Stay safe and informed with updates on the spread of the coronavirus

Delivery: Varies
Your Email
?? What we're reading: Even as thousands of their employees fell ill with COVID-19, meatpacking executives pressured federal regulators to help keep their plants open, according to a trove of emails obtained by USA TODAY. Read more.

??? Mapping coronavirus: Track the U.S. outbreak, state by state

This file will be updated throughout the day. For updates in your inbox, subscribe to The Daily Briefing newsletter.

Pelosi: House will stay in session until coronavirus stimulus deal is reached
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said Tuesday the House will stay in session until a breakthrough is made on a coronavirus stimulus bill, while moderate lawmakers pressed leaders to come up with a relief deal before the November elections. 

"We are committed to staying here until we have an agreement, an agreement that meets the needs of the American people," Pelosi said on CNBC Tuesday. 

Her words signaled relief talks between congressional Democrats and President Donald Trump's White House may be salvaged even though the two sides don't appear any closer to an agreement. Pelosi hasn't budged on her desire for a sweeping multi-trillion-dollar plan for aid to schools, the unemployed and cash-strapped local governments. And Republican leadership didn't appear any more open to recent Democratic proposals on Tuesday.

– Christal Hayes, Nicholas Wu and Ledyard King

University of Missouri expels 2 students, suspends 3 for violating COVID rules
The University of Missouri in Columbia said Tuesday two students have been expelled and three suspended for "willful and knowing actions that threatened the safety of the campus and the broader Columbia community," according to a statement.


The students violated the university's coronavirus-related regulations, including requirements that COVID positive individuals isolate and comply with social distancing requirements, the school said.

"When we see those who willfully violate those expectations, we will take disciplinary action — up to expulsion," University of Missouri Chancellor Mun Choi said in a statement. "It is unfortunate that we had to take these actions, but we felt it was necessary. These students willfully put others at risk, and that is never acceptable."

The university also is investigating 11 student organizations for possible violations. Approximately 470 student cases have been reported for possible violations from Aug. 16 to Sept. 11, the university said. The school had 332 active COVID-19 cases Monday.

Customs seizes 500,000 counterfeit N-95 masks headed to New Jersey
U.S. Customs and Border Protection officers in Chicago seized a shipment containing 500,000 counterfeit N-95 respirator masks arriving from Schenzhen, China, the agency announced Monday.

Officers removed 30 of the masks and sent them to a CDC testing office in West Virginia, which found that 10% of the respirators tested had a filter efficiency rating below 95%. The package, valued at $3 million, was destined for a company in Manalapan, New Jersey, the agency said.

"Our CBP officers working with partners in (Homeland Security Investigation) were able to stop these faulty mask from being sold under the guise of fully protecting Americans," Shane Campbell, Area Port Director-Chicago, said in a statement. "These masks did not meet the safety standards outlined by the CDC, which puts the public at risk, jeopardizing the health and well being of everyone."


The agency said it is targeting imports and exports that may contain counterfeit or illicit goods because some organizations are attempting to exploit the limited supply of some medical goods amid the pandemic.

