Evidence of how far America's premier science offices have fallen from grace in the Trump era came this week when a top U.S. health official accused scientists at the 74-year-old Centers for Disease Control and Prevention of sedition.

Seriously. Trump loyalist Michael Caputo — named in April as chief spokesman for the Department of Health and Human Services, which oversees the CDC — used a Facebook video to claim that federal scientists are plotting rebellion against the president.

It remains unclear what to make of Caputo and his bizarre conspiracy theories (which included warning about a post-election armed leftist revolt). But his rant is the latest chapter in a campaign by the Trump administration to politicize the CDC and its sister agency, the Food and Drug Administration.

Michael Caputo, left, after being interviewed by Senate Intelligence Committee staff investigating Russian meddling in the 2016 presidential election.
Why do that? Because with the U.S. coronavirus death toll approaching 200,000, the president is left with either touting a series of overblown science accomplishments, or undermining scientific proof of his mismanagement. Either of those means injecting politics into the inner workings of two world-renowned agencies grounded in rigorous and objective research.

It's true that both agencies stumbled at the pandemic's outset. The CDC took weeks to develop a diagnostic test for COVID and the FDA was slow to approve alternative testing modules, leaving the U.S. flying blind as the virus was silently spreading.


But their research and expertise remain vital for understanding how best to respond to a deadly virus and treat its terrible sickness.

The White House has undermined both agencies.

Dr. Nancy Messonnier, director of the CDC's National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases, was largely muzzled after presciently warning in February that Americans might have to social distance and "disruption of everyday life might be severe." Later, Trump mocked the CDC's recommendation of wearing masks and, in April, pressed states to reopen despite their failure to comply with careful guidelines for doing so. 


The agency has bent to Trump's pressure tactics. After the administration publicly trashed its guidelines for re-opening schools, the CDC dutifully watered them down. (White House Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany astonishingly argued that "science should not stand in the way of" school reopenings.) And after Trump called for less coronavirus testing, the CDC in August altered its guidelines in a way that would result in that very thing.

Get the Opinion newsletter in your inbox.
What do you think? Shape your opinion with a digest of takes on current events.

Delivery: Daily
Your Email
Meanwhile, Caputo — a political operative lacking in scientific training — set himself up as a gatekeeper between the agency's top health officials and major media organizations trying to inform the public.

More recently, Caputo and others at HHS demanded the right to review, alter or block release of highly respected CDC research known as Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Reports that have tracked COVID's spread and discussed a questionable treatment promoted by Trump. The reports were labeled "hit pieces" by a Caputo aide, and CDC resistance to any prior restraint might have contributed to Caputo's Facebook tirade.