I was furloughed and after applying for unemployment benefits, got two part-time temporary jobs. Am I now disqualified from any benefits?
You are not automatically disqualified from receiving benefits. However, the amount you would receive will be reduced due to the part-time income, and in some states, you may be earning too much, according to Andrew Stettner with The Century Foundation. You need to check with your state. And a word of caution: You cannot quit working without cause to boost your benefits. You would lose your financial assistance, and could be determined to have committed fraud.

— Charisse Jones

Follow Charisse on Twitter @charissejones. 

Will homeowners get relief with mortgages?
The CARES Act gives homeowners with federally backed loans two types of relief. First, it prevents lenders from beginning foreclosure proceedings on federally backed loans for at least 60 days after March 18. Second, homeowners who experienced financial hardship from the pandemic can request a forbearance for up to 180 days, which may be extended for an additional period of up to six months if borrowers are still under financial duress.

... How can I postpone my mortgage payments?

To receive forbearance through the CARES Act, you must contact your loan servicer. There won’t be any additional fees, penalties or interest added to your account through this deferment, but regular interest will still accrue.

— Jessica Menton

Follow Jessica on Twitter @JessicaMenton.

Will adults with disabilities, who are dependents on a caregivers' tax returns, receive a stimulus check?
No. The new law that set up the stimulus check program says that individuals who are claimed as dependents by someone else are not eligible for a stimulus check.

— Michael Collins

Follow Michael on Twitter @mcollinsNEWS. 

Can I apply for unemployment benefits for a second, part-time job?
Losing a second job makes you eligible for partial unemployment insurance. States have different rules regarding part-time positions, but the federal CARES Act does say part-time workers who are affected by the ramifications of COVID-19 can get assistance. Check with your state, but you should be able to get some aid.

... I work 2 part time jobs, one of which I had my hours cut way back. I am still working about 20 hours a week in one job. Can I collect unemployment insurance on a part time job?

It depends on the state whether part-time workers can receive unemployment benefits. California for instance does pay out such funds. The federal CARES Act also says part-time workers are entitled to assistance if their hours are cut for reasons out of their control. So you may be able to get the $600 federal benefit as well, but again, it's best to check with your state unemployment office

— Charisse Jones

Follow Charisse on Twitter @charissejones. 
When will the $600 federal unemployment check be paid?
... I got my first unemployment check but not the $600.

The pipeline for these payments is still unclear.

... I’ve been unemployed since January 2020. Is the $600 weekly benefit retroactive from then or just from the date it was announced?

Depending on when your state entered into an agreement with the federal government, the $600 weekly benefit could be retroactive back to March 28. It ends July 31. 

... Are furloughs eligible for the federal $600?

Yes. If the person isn't being paid, they are considered unemployed and can receive that federal assistance.

— Charisse Jones

Follow Charisse on Twitter @charissejones. 