94. Be aware of overt versus covert racism

Boyd explains that overt is direct, “over-the-top, in your face” racism, whereas covert or “hidden” racism looks like microaggressions. For example, “Wow, you’re amazingly articulate for a Black guy.”

“The covert racism I think could be more problematic. When people are overtly racist, we see them. I see the guy wearing the KKK outfit," Boyd explains. "The covert racism often masks itself as, ‘We’re friends but when you’re not here …’ (so it’s) a false sense of security.”

Taylor added, "As white people, we don’t have to have active feelings of hate in our hearts in order to be engaging in racist behavior. Even when we have good intentions, we can still cause racial harm. In other words, we don’t have to be 'bad people' to be engaging in racism."

95. Educate yourself by reading

Reading novels by Black authors can help educate people on Black history and experiences. There are also books that specifically lift up Black female voices as well as help children understand race. To see a full list of book suggestions, click here.

96. Educate yourself with podcasts

Support Black-run podcasts such as “Earn Your Leisure” and "ForAllNerds." There are also podcasts that specifically focus on race, including “About Race,” “Momentum: A Race Forward Podcast” and “Intersectionality Matters!”

97. Educate yourself with movies and TV

A few examples are Ava DuVernay’s documentary “13th," George Tillman Jr.’s “The Hate U Give," Barry Jenkins' "If Beale Street Could Talk," and "Moonlight" and Denzel Washington's "Fences."

DuVernay's Netflix limited series "When They See Us" is required viewing for the intersection of race, incarceration and justice in the United States. "Little Fires Everywhere" on Hulu and "Watchmen" on HBO both weave race and generational inherited trauma into their tales of justice. For lighter fare, Issa Rae's HBO comedy "Insecure" shares a slice-of-life look at a group of Black women in Los Angeles and their triumphs and struggles. The 1997 miniseries "Roots" is based on Alex Haley's 1976 novel "Roots: The Saga of an American Family."

98. Learn from people via Zoom events

Angel Kyodo Williams and others have promoted virtual classes and discussions surrounding a variety of topics. Some are free, others require donations.

99. Be mindful of images you’re sharing online 

“There is vicarious trauma in the Black community,” Boyd said. “And it’s not my family, it’s not my person that’s being killed, but over and over again when people of color turn on the TV or open up social media … and they see Black pain, that hurts a little bit more."

He continued, “So in order for us to let people get over this trauma, we need to stop sharing it as much as we do. I’m not talking censoring, people have a right to see, but the people who share it because of its shock value.”

100. Be mindful of sharing images of protesters

Posting photos from protests on social media could expose protesters' identities.

Contributing: Lokela Blanc, Ryan W. Miller, Jordan Culver and Felecia Wellington Radel, USA TODAY

More:CNN's Omar Jimenez and crew arrested, released while covering protests over George Floyd death

'We must act':Beyoncé, Taylor Swift and more celebrities react to the death of George Floyd

