Virus death toll linked to Maine wedding grows to 7
At least seven people have died in connection to a coronavirus outbreak that continues to sicken people in Maine following a wedding reception held over the summer that violated state virus guidelines, public health authorities said.

The August wedding reception at the Big Moose Inn in Millinocket is linked to more than 175 confirmed cases of the virus, the Maine Center for Disease Control and Prevention said Tuesday.

Maine authorities have identified overlaps between the wedding reception and outbreaks elsewhere in the state. An employee of the York County Jail attended the wedding, Maine CDC officials have said. Maine health officials have also said a staff member from a Madison rehabilitation center, which is the site of six of the seven deaths, attended the event.

– The Associated Press

COVID-19 may have been in US as early as December, study says
Researchers at UCLA say the coronavirus may have been in the country as early as December, weeks before U.S. health officials announced the nation's first case, according to a study in the Journal of Medical Internet Research this week.

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention confirmed the first case of COVID-19 in the U.S. in January. But researchers analyzing electronic health records found there was a significant increase in patients with coughs and acute respiratory failure at UCLA Health hospitals and clinics beginning in late December.


This rise in patients with these symptoms continued through February and represents an unexpected 50% increase in such cases when compared with the same time period in each of the previous five years, according to the study.

Six states removed from New York, New Jersey, Connecticut quarantine order
Travelers from California and five other states will no longer have to quarantine upon arriving in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, according to the latest list released Tuesday.

New Jersey and Connecticut confirmed the nation's most-populous state is no longer included in the tri-state travel order, which requires anyone traveling from states with moderate-to-high rates of positive COVID-19 cases to isolate for 14 days, unless they're passing through or arriving for essential work.

The quarantine list now stands at 30 states and territories after Maryland, Ohio, Nevada, Hawaii and Minnesota were also removed. Puerto Rico was re-added after it was removed last week.

– Jon Campbell, New York State Team

Disneyland, Universal Studios call on governor to reopen theme parks
After shutting down for six months, Disneyland and Universal Studios are asking California Gov. Gavin Newsom to allow theme parks in the state to reopen.

The California Attractions and Parks Association, which represents popular theme parks like Knott's Berry Farm, Legoland, Disneyland and Universal Studios, called on the governor Monday to implement COVID-19 regulations to allow the parks to get back to business.

"California’s amusement parks urge the Governor to issue amusement park guidelines expeditiously so these vital community attractions can reopen their doors in a responsible manner and get residents back to work," Erin Guerrero, CAPA's executive director, said in a statement emailed to USA TODAY.

– Rasha Ali

