After crossing containment lines overnight, the Bobcat fire moved within striking distance of the Mt. Wilson Observatory, the U.S. Forest Service said Tuesday, with firefighters mounting an aggressive defense from the air and on the ground.

The fire continued to push in multiple directions Tuesday, with firefighters stationed at the observatory ready to do battle and multiple aircraft making water drops through the day. The observatory is one of the crown jewels of astronomy, and officials vowed to save the historic complex.

Officials at the 116-year-old observatory tweeted Monday night that the fire was “knocking on our door,” noting that all observatory personnel had been evacuated.

But shortly after noon Tuesday, forest officials tweeted the blaze was less than 500 feet from the observatory. Fire crews “are in place ready to receive the fire,” officials said, noting that strategic firing was taking place to the south, where air operations were strengthening bulldozer lines.


“They are in a firefight right now, because it is so close,” L.A. County Fire Capt. David Dantic said of crews positioned at Mt. Wilson.

In addition to the observatory’s iconic structures, there are several communications towers atop Mt. Wilson that are threatened by the blaze.

“There’s major infrastructure for radio, television and cell towers up there,” Dantic said, “so there might be possible disruptions.”


Progress on the fire has been slow. After hovering at 6% containment for several days, the blaze, which started Sept. 6 and grew to more than 41,000 acres, is now only 3% contained.

“It’s a bigger area now,” Dantic said Tuesday morning. “Before, we had 6% containment when it was about 30,000 acres, but now the fire has gotten bigger. It’s a bigger footprint. That’s why the containment is down.”

MONROVIA, CA - SEPTEMBER 10: Mormon Lake Hotshots firefighter Sara Sweeney uses a drip torch to set a backfire to protect mountain communities from the Bobcat Fire in the Angeles National Forest on September 10, 2020 north of Monrovia, California. California wildfires that have already incinerated a record 2.3 million acres this year and are expected to continue till December. The Bobcat Fire has grown to about 24,00 acres, and is 6% contained. (Photo by David McNew/Getty Images)
CALIFORNIA

How the Bobcat fire grew into a unique menace that’s evading firefighters

Sep. 15, 2020

Mt. Wilson is a major site in the development of astronomy. The observatory was founded by George Ellery Hale in 1904, and its first telescopes — weighing hundreds of pounds each — were transported in pieces up the nine-mile Mt. Wilson toll road on the backs of burros. Now the observatory lets visitors view space through its 60-inch telescope, which has been in place since 1908.

When the 100-inch Hooker telescope gathered its first light on Nov. 1, 1917, it overtook its 60-inch neighbor and became the largest telescope in the world — a position it held for more than three decades.

Other observatories — in the high plains of Chile, in orbit around the Earth — have rendered Mt. Wilson obsolete, but the campus is still a destination for astronomers and stargazers, who for decades have been drawn by its famed “seeing,” a shared term of appreciation for the quality of light that defines Los Angeles.

The famed 100-inch and 60-inch telescopes remain destinations for tour groups and the site a venue for concerts. A number of universities, however, maintain smaller and private telescopes at Mt. Wilson, including Georgia State University, which manages the CHARA array.

Completed in 2004, CHARA — Center for High Angular Resolution Astronomy — is an optical interferometer, six telescopes positioned across the campus whose images are coordinated and digitized by computer, giving astronomers details and precise information about star systems thousands of light years away.

The Bobcat fire is approaching the Mt. Wilson Observatory from its most vulnerable front: the steep eastern slopes that rise precipitously from canyons cut by creeks flowing into Big Santa Anita Canyon beside Chantry Flat. The terrain cannot be defended by cutting a fire break, leaving airdrops and backfires as the only strategies.

“If the fire does arrive, I suspect it will come first hit the ground near Echo Point,” said Robert Anderson, a docent with the Mount Wilson Institute, a nonprofit that operates and maintains the historic campus. “The terrain allows no stopping that without the air support.”

