
Human–computer interaction
Main article: Human–computer interaction
Research that develops theories, principles, and guidelines for user interface designers, so they can create satisfactory user experiences with desktop, laptop, and mobile devices.

Scientific computing and simulation
Main article: Computational science

Scientific computing (or computational science) is the field of study concerned with constructing mathematical models and quantitative analysis techniques and using computers to analyze and solve scientific problems. A major usage of scientific computing is simulation of various processes, including computational fluid dynamics, physical, electrical, and electronic systems and circuits, as well as societies and social situations (notably war games) along with their habitats, among many others. Modern computers enable optimization of such designs as complete aircraft. Notable in electrical and electronic circuit design are SPICE,[70] as well as software for physical realization of new (or modified) designs. The latter includes essential design software for integrated circuits.[citation needed]


Lorenz attractor yb.svg	Quark wiki.jpg	Naphthalene-3D-balls.png	1u04-argonaute.png	DTI-sagittal-fibers.jpg
Numerical analysis	Computational physics	Computational chemistry	Bioinformatics	Computational neuroscience
Artificial intelligence
Main article: Artificial intelligence
Artificial intelligence (AI) aims to or is required to synthesize goal-orientated processes such as problem-solving, decision-making, environmental adaptation, learning, and communication found in humans and animals. From its origins in cybernetics and in the Dartmouth Conference (1956), artificial intelligence research has been necessarily cross-disciplinary, drawing on areas of expertise such as applied mathematics, symbolic logic, semiotics, electrical engineering, philosophy of mind, neurophysiology, and social intelligence. AI is associated in the popular mind with robotic development, but the main field of practical application has been as an embedded component in areas of software development, which require computational understanding. The starting point in the late 1940s was Alan Turing's question "Can computers think?", and the question remains effectively unanswered, although the Turing test is still used to assess computer output on the scale of human intelligence. But the automation of evaluative and predictive tasks has been increasingly successful as a substitute for human monitoring and intervention in domains of computer application involving complex real-world data.

Nicolas P. Rougier's rendering of the human brain.png	Human eye, rendered from Eye.png	Corner.png
Machine learning	Computer vision	Image processing
KnnClassification.svg	Julia iteration data.png	Sky.png
Pattern recognition	Data mining	Evolutionary computation
Neuron.svg	English.png	HONDA ASIMO.jpg
Knowledge representation and reasoning	Natural language processing	Robotics

Software engineering
Main article: Software engineering
See also: Computer programming
Software engineering is the study of designing, implementing, and modifying the software in order to ensure it is of high quality, affordable, maintainable, and fast to build. It is a systematic approach to software design, involving the application of engineering practices to software. Software engineering deals with the organizing and analyzing of software—it doesn't just deal with the creation or manufacture of new software, but its internal arrangement and maintenance.
Discoveries
The philosopher of computing Bill Rapaport noted three Great Insights of Computer Science:[71]

Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz's, George Boole's, Alan Turing's, Claude Shannon's, and Samuel Morse's insight: there are only two objects that a computer has to deal with in order to represent "anything".[note 4]
All the information about any computable problem can be represented using only 0 and 1 (or any other bistable pair that can flip-flop between two easily distinguishable states, such as "on/off", "magnetized/de-magnetized", "high-voltage/low-voltage", etc.).