David Oyelowo (top), Rosario Dawson and Lonnie Chavis are the family at the center of Oyelowo's directorial debut "The Water Man."
9. 'The Water Man'
A Spielbergian fantasy adventure with a ton of emotion, David Oyelowo's directorial debut stars Lonnie Chavis ("This Is Us") as young Gunner, whose mom (Rosario Dawson) is not doing well with her battle with leukemia. Often at loggerheads with his dad (Oyelowo), Gunner embarks on a quest with a fellow youngster (Amiah Miller) through a forest to find a magical figure who may hold the key to everlasting life. While the larger mythological elements are a bit undercooked, Oyelowo's handling of the family dynamic is top notch and his animated graphic-novel sequences (tied to Gunner's artistic interests) add an extra level of throwback satisfaction.

President Barack Obama (left) walks along the West Colonnade of the White House with chief White House photographer Pete Souza, the subject of the documentary "The Way I See It."
8. 'The Way I See It'
You can't throw a ball without hitting a new political documentary these days, but the new film about former White House photographer Pete Souza, who took breathtaking and candid shots of ex-presidents Ronald Reagan and Barack Obama, is one of the more emotional. While it looks at a wowing portfolio, the film also tackles Souza as an accidental social-media star who earned the nickname "king of shade" when he started Instagramming his pictures of Obama to troll President Trump's tweets. "This is a serious job being the president," Souza says in the doc. "I'm going to do what I can to make sure people remember that."

A wealthy elderly woman (Dianne Wiest, center) is the latest mark for a couple of high-end grifters (Eiza Gonzalez and Rosamund Pike) in "I Care A Lot."
7. 'I Care A Lot'
Rosamund Pike rekindles her icy goodness from "Gone Girl" and chills it out some more in writer/director J Blakeson's savage and satirical dark comedy/crime thriller. Pike plays a legal conservator and grifter who runs a racket taking on the guardianship of elderly folks deemed unfit to care for themselves and bilks them till they die. She and her partner/lover (Eiza Gonzalez) find Jennifer (Dianne Wiest) a "cherry" of a mark – no family, plenty of wealth – yet karma arrives when they run afoul of a powerful gangster (Peter Dinklage). The film is worth it for the vicious cat-and-mouse antics of Pike vs. Dinklage, and you'll root for the villain – though who that is changes throughout.

Harp (Idris Elba, left) teaches his estranged son Cole (Caleb McLaughlin) how to ride a horse in "Concrete Cowboy."
6. 'Concrete Cowboy'
As if Idris Elba couldn't get any cooler, wait till you see him wearing a cowboy hat and bandanna over his face like he's about to steal hearts and minds. That's pretty much what happens in director Ricky Staub's refreshing father/son tale. Elba's Harp is a Black cowboy in Philadelphia who takes in his estranged son Cole (Caleb McLaughlin) after he's kicked out of his Detroit school. Most fascinating is the exploration of a real-life Western-influenced subculture where these Black cowboys are disenfranchised in their own city yet still ride tall in the saddle with a palpable sense of freedom. 

The new documentary "MLK/FBI" examines the FBI's efforts to undermine and humiliate 1960s civil-rights leader Martin Luther King Jr.
5. 'MLK/FBI'
Director Sam Pollard's illuminating and infuriating documentary focuses on how dirty tricks were used to undermine the work and influence of civil-rights leader Martin Luther King Jr. by longtime FBI director J. Edgar Hoover, who famously worried of a "Black messiah." Using recently declassified files, the film reveals how the FBI wiretapped and engaged in full-on surveillance of King after the 1963 March on Washington to use his extramarital affairs to discredit and embarrass him. Pollard draws uncanny parallels to current social turmoil and the continued fight for equality at a time when it feels necessary to hear King's words again.

