Is he right? How good has Trump’s pandemic leadership been? Put aside all the arguments about travel bans and testing. Ignore all the charges and counter-charges about lockdowns and masks. There is a single chart that tells you everything you need to know about the pandemic for the presidential election.


Trump’s press secretary, Kayleigh McEnany, defended Trump’s insistence on minimizing the threat of the pandemic by claiming, “At a time when you’re facing insurmountable challenges, it’s important to express confidence, it’s important to express calm.” Except the coronavirus isn’t an “insurmountable challenge.” Plenty of countries have surmounted it just fine, including Italy where chaos and inefficiency are so ingrained in the political culture that it is almost a point of national pride. And yes, schools will be opening all across Italy this month. The Italians managed to get a handle on the coronavirus. We did not. And that is entirely down to a lack of effective leadership.


Pick the evil leader, not the stupid one
If you’re forced to choose between an evil leader and a stupid one, pick the evil leader every time. Evil leaders might ignore your interests but they’ll always look after their own. And sometimes, those interests might coincide with yours just by accident. Plus, you know an evil leader isn’t going to blow himself up — and you along with him — through sheer incompetence.


'Deadly stuff':Donald Trump spills to Bob Woodward and strengthens the case against his reelection

Unfortunately, stupid is what we’re left with when we give Donald Trump the benefit of the doubt. Whatever you might think of his policies, he’s just not up to leading the country in a crisis. Not only does he have awful judgment — his decision to minimize the threat of the pandemic is estimated to have cost at least 54,000 lives — he cannot comprehend the leadership skills necessary to communicate a plan and get the country behind it and pulling together. He’s been tested and condemned, not just by events, but out of his own mouth. Whatever you might think of his policies, he’s the wrong man for the job.
When the chips are down, being president isn’t about policies, it’s about good judgment and leadership. Fighting a pandemic ought to spark a moment of national unity. Just as in any natural disaster, there is a single goal whether you are a liberal or a conservative. That it has been allowed to devolve into a partisan food fight is entirely the responsibility of the man at the top and his inability to lead the country rather than divide it.
Biden's 'pandemic war cabinet'
Credit where credit is due. Joe Biden gets this and he has no intention of turning the pandemic into a political football. He’s already spent six months quietly developing a comprehensive plan he can start implementing on Jan. 20. Perhaps best of all, to put this plan into action, he’s assembled a “pandemic war cabinet” consisting of heavy hitters from both Republican and Democratic administrations.