20. Good Hurt Fuego Hot Sauce Sampler Pack
Best gifts of 2020: The Good Hurt Fuego Hot Sauce Sampler
Best gifts of 2020: The Good Hurt Fuego Hot Sauce Sampler (Photo: The Good Hurt Fuego)

If your recipient likes things spicy—like really spicy—this sampler pack of hot sauces will definitely bring the heat. This offering from Thoughtfully Gifts includes seven different flavors of hot sauce, ranging from mild to very hot. Plus, these hot sauces don't just burn your mouth, they offer incredible flavor that will amp up any meal, which is why reviewers love it.

Get the Good Hurt Fuego Hot Sauce Sampler Pack at Amazon for $39.99 

21. Anker Soundcore Bluetooth Speaker
Best gifts of 2020: Anker Soundcore Bluetooth Speaker
Best gifts of 2020: Anker Soundcore Bluetooth Speaker (Photo: Reviewed / Betsey Goldwasser)

If your special someone loves to bring the jams beach or poolside, then what they really need is a waterproof, high-quality Bluetooth speaker. When we tested the best affordable portable speakers for our roundups, we found the Anker Soundcore was offered great sound and playtime for a reasonable price. It's also available in a wide color selection, for some extra personalization for your giftee.

Get the Anker Soundcore Bluetooth Speaker at Amazon for $24.99

22. Fitbit Charge 4
Bets gifts of 2020: Fitbit Charge 4
Bets gifts of 2020: Fitbit Charge 4 (Photo: Fitbit)

Fitness trackers are not slowing down in popularity and Fitbit just updated it's popular Charge 3 and made it even better with a brighter screen and GPS-capabilities. It's so good that we crowned it our new favorite fitness tracker, dethroning the Charge 3. It'd make a great gift for anyone who could use a little extra motivation and is obsessed with crushing new fitness goals.

Get the Fitbit Charge 4 at Amazon for $129.95

23. AncestryDNA
Best gifts of 2020: AncestryDNA
Best gifts of 2020: AncestryDNA (Photo: Reviewed / Jackson Ruckar)

Unless they're hiding a major family secret, most people would be pretty stoked to get a DNA testing kit during the holidays. I mean, who doesn't like to learn more about themselves? With more than 18 million users, AncestryDNA is the most popular DNA testing kit on the market, which means your giftee is more likely to pinpoint exactly where their ancestors are from and potentially even connect with a long-lost relative. Plus, as more people join the service, Ancestry can pinpoint more specific regions, so it really is a gift that keeps on giving.

Get AncestryDNA at Ancestry for $99

24. Ninja Fit Personal Blender
Best gifts of 2020: Ninja Fit Personal Blender
Best gifts of 2020: Ninja Fit Personal Blender (Photo: Reviewed / Jackson Ruckar)

Most people don't require an expensive, professional blender, but many could benefit from a personal blender in their life. They're great for single-serving smoothies or small batches of sauces and salsa and are small enough to store in even the most cramped kitchens. The Ninja Fit is the best personal blender we've ever tested, and we love that it comes with tight travel lids, which means easy on-the-go smoothie sipping for your giftee.

Get the Ninja Fit Personal Blender at Amazon for $49.99
