60. Urge schools to integrate diversity into the curriculum

Teachers can help educate students on racism, incorporating diversity and inclusion into their curriculum.

What do we tell our children? George Floyd. Ahmaud Arbery. Breonna Taylor.

61. Encourage students to study diverse historical figures

The United Nations suggests that students study "the stories of famous people who have fought against discrimination. Study the contributions made by people from all parts of the world to the common stock of human knowledge and experience. Introduce as much cultural diversity as possible into the curriculum."

62. Bring diverse voices into schools/  Volunteer to be a speaker 

"Invite people of other races or colors who are active in community work to speak to the class about what they do," the United Nations also suggests.

63. Read about race

Talking to kids about complex world issues can be tough, but these books can help young people learn in a gentle, thoughtful way.

64. Activities that teach about race/racism

The "National Black Lives Matter At School" network of educators and supporters has activity guides with kid-friendly language that help educate about race.

65. More resources for kids

The D.C. Area Educators for Social Justice website also has resources for kids and teens.


66. Address racism and microaggressions at home with family, friends

"The key way to be antiracist is to name, interrupt, and counter racist ideas and actions in our everyday lives," Dr. Amanda Taylor, senior adjunct professorial lecturer, School of International Service at American University, told USA TODAY.

67. Tips for calling out family and friends in person

Amnesty International suggests using "I" statements when confronting a family member or friend. "Rather than saying ‘You’re a racist,’ talk about how those comments are impacting you and how you are feeling about it,” their website states. They also suggest clarifying the other person's stance, talking to them quietly and not getting too aggressive, which may lessen the effectiveness of you "persuasive powers."

68. Tips for calling out family and friends online

Amnesty International has a couple of suggestions for dealing with racists online, which include "Deleting or blocking them," "sharing a link that explains the holes in their views" or "taking a similar approach to the tips above for real-life conversations."

69. Influence people in your group

It's great to call people out on racist comments, but don't stop there. You can also preemptively help educate others by talking to people in your own life about how systems of oppression affect marginalized groups.

70. Demand change from brands

Your wallet can be your power when it comes to taking action. For-profit brands need customers to make revenue, so using your purchasing power and your platform on social media and with reviews are ways to push brands into enacting change you would like to see.

71. Question the media outlets you read

Are media outlets sharing statements of solidarity but not actually contributing to diverse newsrooms? As readers, you can question and share your opinions and concerns on the content provided. Sharing job postings and internship opportunities within your communities also helps give more people the chance to make their voices part of a larger outlet.


