There are probably enough people to determine the outcome of the presidential election who can be described thusly: They prefer Donald Trump to Joe Biden on policy, but find Trump’s conduct as president to be deplorable and wearisome.

I suspect this describes a large fraction of swing suburban voters in Maricopa County, Arizona, who have the attention of national prognosticators.

They are not Never-Trumpers. They might still vote for Trump if the price of getting rid of him is too high. Call them Don’t-Like-Trumpers.

For this segment of the electorate, nationally and locally, Democrats keep increasing the price, and the risk, of booting the boor from office.

Bill Clinton would win in a landslide
If the Democrats had nominated a truly center-left candidate, my guess is that he or she would win in a landslide. Someone like Bill Clinton after the defeat of Hillarycare.


After that, Clinton still pushed policies that expanded the scope and reach of the federal government, but in small, incremental ways. Nothing that fundamentally changed the nature of the country’s political economy or the political playing field.

Glimmers of hope:Iraq makes most politicians look bad. Joe Biden's record is actually a bit above average.

He also was willing to work on enacting some Republican priorities in a divided government, such as welfare reform and a reduction in the capital gains tax. He famously, if inaccurately, declared that the era of big government was over.


Instead, Joe Biden is a chameleon
Biden isn’t that guy. Biden is a Democratic chameleon, taking on the coloration of whatever happens to be the Democratic consensus of the moment.

Biden obviously loves the life of being a politician. He’s been one since his 20s. And he is reflexively liberal. But he isn’t what Margaret Thatcher called a conviction politician, as she and Ronald Reagan were, and as Bernie Sanders is.

Get the Opinion newsletter in your inbox.
What do you think? Shape your opinion with a digest of takes on current events.

Delivery: Daily
Your Email
Biden goes with the flow, at least the flow within the Democratic Party. During the Clinton era, when Democrats wanted to be seen as tough on crime, Biden led the way. Today, when the party wants to defang the police and end mass incarceration, he has apologized for his previous handiwork.

So, what’s important in this election isn’t so much where Biden is as where his party is and wants to go. And his party does not see this as a small-ball election.

And his party wants big changes
Former Vice President Joe Biden, left, embraces Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., during a Democratic presidential primary debate, Friday, Feb. 7, 2020, hosted by ABC News, Apple News, and WMUR-TV at Saint Anselm College in Manchester, N.H. (AP Photo/Elise Amendola)
Democrats, including Biden, are committed to fundamentally remaking the political economy of the United States. Not, as Republicans claim, to adopt socialism. Even the Democrats who claim to be socialists, such as Sanders, aren’t really, if the term is to retain any useful meaning. The only part of the economy even Sanders would nationalize is health care. He would leave the rest of the economy market-based, if heavily regulated. And the party is still at least slightly to the right of Sanders.