Is there a cutoff date to the additional $600 payments?
The extra $600 in weekly unemployment benefits will expire after July 31, if the Senate doesn’t pass the $3 trillion HEROES Act – another emergency stimulus package that would extend the additional $600 benefit into January 2021.

— Jessica Menton

Follow Jessica on Twitter: @JessicaMenton.

If I resign from my job due to child care because of the COVID-19, am I eligible for unemployment?
If you are forced to resign from your job because you have a child that requires care and are unable to obtain child care because your care provider is closed due to the coronavirus, then you may qualify for Pandemic Unemployment Assistance, according to Christina Taylor, head of operations at Credit Karma Tax.

PUA is the federal portion of unemployment that is an additional $600 per week you can receive in addition to the State Unemployment Assistance you may receive. Every state's unemployment program is different, so it's important to check your state's rules because some states may allow for state unemployment assistance if you're in this situation.

If your child would normally be in school, but their school is closed due to the virus, then you could qualify for PUA if you resign due to not having childcare. Once the normal school year is out, however, you would no longer qualify for federal unemployment assistance, unless your child's summer care provider, like a summer camp or a summer babysitter, is also closed due to the pandemic, Taylor says.

— Jessica Menton

Follow Jessica on Twitter: @JessicaMenton.

I was recently asked to return to work, but only for a few days a week. Would this affect the extra $600 in unemployment?
... Can I still receive the federal unemployment check due to my drastically cut hours?

As long as you’re receiving jobless benefits, you should get the additional $600 a week until that component of the federal program ends in July.

— Charisse Jones

Follow Charisse on Twitter @charissejones.

Is the Visa debit card I got in the mail my stimulus check?
It's likely. Nearly 4 million people are going to receive their Economic Impact Payment via prepaid debit cards, according to the Internal Revenue Service. The prepaid cards, which started rolling out May 18, are being used for some instead of a paper checks.

Pay attention if you get a plain envelope in the mail that's marked "Money Network Cardholder Services." The cards are marked Visa debit card, and the back of the card has the logo for MetaBank. 

No, it's not a scam. You can call customer service at 800-240-8100 to report your lost or stolen card immediately. Your card will be deactivated so nobody can use it. More information here.

— Susan Tompor

Follow Susan on Twitter: @tompor.

My husband and I haven’t received our stimulus check yet. Who do we contact?
Answer: The IRS has set up a website to track the status of one's stimulus check. You might want to start at: https://www.irs.gov/coronavirus/get-my-payment

— Alfred Miller

Follow Alfred on Twitter @alfredfmiller.

I received unemployment benefits for four weeks but only one $600 payment. How do I complain?
... I was under the impression the $600 was to be paid with each payment.

The $600 federal payments are typically included in the checks being dispensed by state unemployment offices. Email those administrators with a query about your missing payments. You can also try to call. That’s been difficult due to the volume of applicants, but many states have set up call centers to specifically respond to queries related to the coronavirus that operate seven days a week.

— Charisse Jones

Follow Charisse on Twitter @charissejones.

What if I don't qualify for unemployment insurance? Am I still eligible for the $600 weekly federal stimulus?
... My hours have been reduced, plus a 10% salary decrease. If I'm eligible for the extra $600, should I keep certifying with unemployment each week, so that I can receive that or should I stop certifying, as it will be sent to me anyway?

If you do not qualify for your state’s unemployment insurance, you might try applying for the Pandemic Unemployment Assistance (PUA) program in your state. The program helps unemployed people who are business owners, self-employed, independent contractors, have limited work history or those not usually eligible for regular state unemployment benefits who are out of business or services are significantly reduced as a direct result of the pandemic. Once you are approved for PUA, the extra $600 would be added, as well.

— Josh Rivera

Follow Josh on Twitter: @Josh1Rivera.

I haven’t worked in over two years, can I receive unemployment?
That’s unlikely. Most states require applicants to have worked in the last 12 to 18 months to draw benefits.

— Charisse Jones

Follow Charisse on Twitter @charissejones.

I'm furloughed with no return date, can I collect until the day I retire?
... If I am forced into retirement due to this unknown.

If you are at retirement age, you can actually collect unemployment and Social Security benefits at the same time. States no longer reduce unemployment benefits when claimants are also receiving Social Security. However, your Social Security benefits will be greater for every year you can delay until age 70.

Also, if you start taking Social Security, you only have one opportunity to withdraw. It must be within 12 months and you must repay all benefits.

 — Alfred Miller

Follow Alfred on Twitter @alfredfmiller.

Will the additional $600 payment be taxable?
Unemployment benefits are taxable income. Unlike the federal stimulus checks, which will reflect as tax credit. Any money you receive from the federal or state government unemployment fund is included in your gross income and taxed at your ordinary income rate.

... Do we have to pay back the $600 weekly federal disbursements when we claim unemployment? Will we need to pay it back when we return back to work?

You will have to pay taxes on that move as it is counted as taxable income.

(We are also looking to talk to people who have gotten additional unemployment insurance checks that they didn't claim. If you or someone you know has had this experience, please fill this form and a reporter will contact you.)

— Josh Rivera

Follow Josh on Twitter: @Josh1Rivera.