Berhan Grains, Blk and Bold, Brooklyn Tea and Partake Foods are just a few you can check out.

85. Buy fashion from Black designers

Founder Anifa Mvuemba brings bright colors and innovative branding to fashion line Hanifa; Grace Wales Bonner's eponymous label offers tailored silhouettes; and mother-daughter design duo Rebecca Henry and Akua Shabaka at House of Aama share an "ode to Southern Creole spiritually and African roots" with their clothing.

86. Join the "15 Percent Pledge"

Want to see more Black-owned brands in stores? The "15 Percent Pledge" petition challenges "major retailers to pledge 15% of their shelf space to Black-owned businesses." Brother Vellies designer Aurora James launched the campaign and is calling on stores including Whole Foods, Target and Barnes & Noble to take the challenge.

87. Support digital and tech companies operated by Black leadership

Baltimore-based RightDirection Technology Solutions, Mobile Defenders in Kentwood, Michigan, and Blacc Spot Media are all examples of Black-led tech companies.

88. Support home brands with Black leadership

Godly Gorgeous, Herpothecary, Pur Home and Rochelle Porter are just a few.

Follow and help amplify nuanced voices on social media
89. Follow people promoting helpful information and resources

Academic and writer Rachel Cargle has shared letter templates for holding your employer accountable for racial justice and resource roundups on social media. Black Lives Matter founders Opal Tometi, Alicia Garza and Patrisse Khan-Cullors provide thoughtful commentary and often share news and helpful resources, as do activist and author Brittany Packnett Cunningham, The Black List founder Franklin Leonard and director/producer Matthew A. Cherry. Teen Vogue editor in chief Lindsay Peoples Wagner has been a mainstay as a vocal proponent of telling stories with Black people, people of color and people from marginalized communities at the center and sharing her experiences on social media.

90. Follow allies using their platform

Celebrities, including Chrissy Teigen, George Clooney and Ellen DeGeneres, have been using their platforms to reflect on racism and highlight organizations that accept donations. White influencers such as Kate Austin have also been amplifying Black voices, making donations and urging their followers to do the same. Illustrator Jane Mount has shared book recommendations to learn more about antiracism with her social media followers. GQ columnist and former Out magazine editor in chief Phillip Picardi often shares intersectional content with his followers that looks at LGBTQ+ communities. Celebrity chef Jose Andres has continuously provided food and resources to assist those facing food insecurities in times of crisis.

91. Organizations to follow

The Audre Lorde Project is a “community organizing center for LGBTSTGNC (lesbian, gay, bisexual, two spirit, transgender, and gender-nonconforming) people of color communities.” Showing Up for Racial Justice is a “national network of groups and individuals organizing white people for racial justice.” RAICES is the “largest immigration legal services nonprofit in Texas, focusing on under-served immigrant children, families & refugees.” SisterSong describes itself as a “National Women of Color Reproductive Justice Collective.”

92. Wellness spaces promoting mental health

The American Psychological Association has created a list of psychologists available to discuss issues surrounding violent events targeting African Americans. They also have articles on understanding racism and the stress of invisibility on the African American community. Black Mental Wellness provides access to "evidence-based information and resources about mental health and behavioral health topics from a Black perspective."

Dr. Joy Harden Bradford's "Therapy for Black Girls" podcast and Instagram account provide mental health resources for Black women and a community space to help heal. Sista Afya is a community-driven organization based in Chicago that offers Black women low-cost therapy sessions and other mental health support including group therapy, workshops and discussions.

Other ways to help
93. Vote! Boyd says political action is another vital part in taking action. “Going to the polls,” he explained. “White America just by the numbers has a lot more voting power and a lot more political power than Black America does, so to have white America agree to levels of accountability for politicians” is important.
