13. 'The Boy from Medellín'
The documentary follows popular reggaeton singer J Balvin as he returns to his Colombian hometown for a solo stadium show, and explores an artist on top of the world struggling with his mental health. Balvin, who counts President Barack Obama as a fan, comes alive when he arrives in Medellín, where people take selfies with him at the gym ("I need my city. I need to feel its energy"), but he also debates speaking out – and what to say – as marches, protests and strikes break out against the country's right-wing government. Balvin, though, most honestly discusses his crippling depression and anxiety: "It's hell for real. It's a fear of fear."

Aris Servetalis stars as an amnesiac on a path of self-discovery in the Greek dramedy "Apples."
12. 'Apples'
Greek director Christos Nikou's feature debut is an allegorical dramedy with a timely bent. During a global pandemic causing sudden amnesia, middle-aged Aris (Aris Servetalis) wakes up on a bus not knowing who he is. He enters a strange "New Identity" program that puts him through various challenges – go to a strip club, wreck a car – so Aris can create new life moments and take a Polaroid to capture them. He meets a woman (Sofia Georgovassili) also in "recovery," though the truth of Aris' past is gradually revealed in a thoughtful story about self-discovery and selective memory.

David Byrne (center) is host, frontman and ringmaster of "American Utopia," a filmed version of the Broadway show directed by Spike Lee.
11. David Byrne's 'American Utopia'
Spike Lee masterfully directs this filmed version of the former Talking Heads frontman's Broadway show, an abstract and happy-go-lucky paean to empathy, love and human connection backed by a multicultural marching band of instrumentalists and dancers wearing his signature look (gray suit, bare feet). Byrne performs new wave tunes, funky jams and even a Janelle Monae protest song, gives a science lesson on brains and name-drops Brian Eno before launching into a number "using nonsense to make sense of a world that doesn't make sense." It's a feel-good hour and 45 minutes that shows Byrne, 68, still strong of voice and possessing the physical dexterity of a yoga instructor.

Joe (Mark Wahlberg, right) shares a moment with his gay teen son Jadin (Reid Miller) in "Good Joe Bell."
10. 'Good Joe Bell'
Scripted by "Brokeback Mountain" writers Larry McMurtry and Diana Ossana and directed by Reinaldo Marcus Green ("Monsters and Men"), the heartbreaking and haunting drama tells the story of Joe Bell (Mark Wahlberg), an Oregon man who sets off on a walk to New York City to speak out about bullying after the suicide of his gay teen son Jadin (Reid Miller). With scruffy beard and ratty hat, Joe journeys toward forgiveness for how he treated his kid in a story that starts off ambitious but settles into conventionality. It's a strong performance for Wahlberg but Miller is outstanding in a breakthrough role as a young man who can't find the emotional support he needs.

