25. Kids of Colour

This platform helps young people of color to explore race, identity and culture as well as challenge everyday and institutionalized racism. Donations go toward "event/workshop costs; resources; project activity and ensuring young people who support can be paid or rewarded for their time," according to its fundraising page.

26. NourishNYC

This initiative provides direct support to New York City-based activists, including supplies for protesters and bail assistance. 

27. Racial Justice Network

This is a "multi-racial, grassroots organization, committed to fighting for racial justice and building bridges across racial, social, and economic lines," according to its website. Donations go toward community support, events and galas focused on reparations, crisis response efforts and more.

28. Communities United Against Police Brutality

This Twin Cities-based organization accepts donations via mail or PayPal for "office costs, cop watch equipment, court filing fees and other expenses."

29. Unicorn Riot

This is a non-profit media organization dedicated to "exposing root causes of dynamic social and environmental issues through amplifying stories and exploring sustainable alternatives in today’s globalized world," according to its website.

30. The Minnesota Healing Justice Network

This network provides a "supportive professional community and mutual aid network for wellness and healing justice practitioners who also identify as indigenous, Black or people of color," according to its website. They accept donations.

31. The Marshall Project

This is a non-profit journalism organization that focuses on criminal justice. Donations help support the group's goal to "establish facts, expose failures and examine solutions for a criminal justice system in crisis."

32. Your local bond/bail fund

Many organizations in states and cities across the country accept donations that go to paying bail/bond and are also fighting to abolish the money bail system and pretrial detention. The National Bail Fund Network has a directory of community bail funds, and as protests continue in Atlanta, Miami, New York and other major cities, the Georgia Immigration Bond Fund, the LGBTQ Freedom Fund and the Emergency Release Fund are requesting donations.

33. Black Visions Collective

This Minnesota-based group focuses on "healing and transformative justice principles" and leads "targeted collaborative local campaigns" in the state.

34. Spiral Collective

This QTPOC-centered reproductive justice collective helps in “providing free, compassionate, non-judgmental support to the full-spectrum of people across all pregnancy outcomes & reproductive experiences.”

35. Northstar Health Collective

This organization works “in alliance with mainstream and anti-authoritarian organizations to create safe and healthy events.” You can support through written/mailed checks or through PayPal.

36. Reclaim the Block

This coalition seeks to “demand that Minneapolis divest from policing and invest in long-term alternatives,” according to its Twitter bio. Donations help support the coalition’s work to “make sure that our communities have the resources they need to thrive.”

37. Black Table Arts

This organization helps "Black communities through the arts, towards better Black futures," according to its website. They accept donations and also have merchandise for sale.  

38. Black Girls Code

This nonprofit organization offers workshops, programs and other access to Black girls interested in learning about computer programming. They accept donations and also have a signup for volunteers.

39. Isuroon

This grassroots nonprofit organization works to "promote the well-being and empowerment of Somali women in Minnesota and beyond," according to its website. Donations help "women and girls lead healthier, more productive lives."

40. ERASE Racism

This Long Island, New York-based organization "leads public policy advocacy campaigns and related initiatives to promote racial equity in areas such as housing, public school education, and community development," according to their website.

