OMAHA, Neb. — A white business owner who fatally shot an unarmed Black man during civil unrest in downtown Omaha in May will be charged with manslaughter and several other charges.

The May 30 shooting of 22-year-old James Scurlock was reviewed by a grand jury after Douglas County Attorney Don Kleine declined to file charges against bar owner Jake Gardner. Kleine said he believed Gardner acted in self-defense after reviewing video of and witness statements about the altercation, but Kleine requested the review after his decision was criticized to ensure people have faith in the justice system.

Special Prosecutor Frederick Franklin said the grand jury reviewed additional evidence that Kleine didn't have, but he wouldn't discuss details of what the evidence showed. He said police interviewed about 60 people, gathered video from the public and reviewed Gardner's cell phone and social media accounts as part of the investigation.

"I believe there is competent, credible evidence to support the decision that they in fact did make," Franklin said about the grand jury.

FILE - In this Sunday, June 7, 2020, file photo, marchers walk along a street during a rally to remember James Scurlock, in Omaha, Neb. Scurlock, a Black man, was fatally shot by white bar owner Jake Gardner during an Omaha protest over George Floyd's death. Gardner will be charged with manslaughter and several other charges. (Chris Machian/Omaha World-Herald via AP, File) ORG XMIT: NEOMA221
Franklin said the evidence the grand jury reviewed undermines the conclusion that the shooting was self defense.

"There was significant evidence that was consistent with there being an intentional killing by Jake Gardner and that evidence comes primarily from him," he said.

Gardner was also charged with attempted assault, making terroristic threats and using a gun to commit a felony.

'It's nothing but pain':The latest on the cases of violence against Black people that sparked America's racial reckoning


Scurlock's shooting happened as protests and civil unrest unfolded in downtown Omaha and other cities across the country over the May 25 death of George Floyd at the hands of Minneapolis police. Floyd, who was Black and handcuffed, died after a white police officer, Derek Chauvin, pressed his knee into Floyd's neck for several minutes even after Floyd stopped moving and pleading for air.


The Omaha shooting happened outside Gardner's bar in downtown Omaha as he sought to ward off any theft or property damage. After the shooting, Kleine showed surveillance video that seemed to show words exchanged between Gardner, his father and protesters before Gardner, flashing the gun, backed away. Gardner was shoved to the ground by two people before he fired two shots, sending people scrambling. Scurlock then jumped on Gardner's back and was shot by Gardner.

Scurlock family attorney Justin Wayne and members of the Scurlock family, including James Scurlock II, right, talk about special prosecutor Fred Franklin announcing charges in the shooting death of James Scurlock on Tuesday, Sept. 15, 2020, in Omaha, Neb. (Chris Machian/Omaha World-Herald via AP) ORG XMIT: NEOMA401
While there was no audio with the video, Kleine said Gardner warned Scurlock to get off of him several times before he fired the fatal shot.

Critics of the initial investigation said Scurlock was trying to stop Gardner — who had already fired what officials called two warning shots from the gun — from hurting anyone.

Franklin said he hopes the charges won't ignite new protests in Omaha.

"This is not a time for celebration or exurberance. These are simply charges," Franklin said. "Jake Gardner is a man presumed innocent as I stand here before you right now."