Young buffalo looks #handsome like his dad.

NYC lockdown led to 70% drop in COVID-19 spread, study finds
Mandated stay-at-home measures contributed to a roughly 70% reduction in the transmission of COVID-19 in New York City during the spring pandemic wave from March to June, according to scientists at Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health and the city’s public health department.

Widespread use of face coverings contributed to an additional 7% reduction in transmission and a 20% reduction among those aged 65 and older during the first month face covering was mandated in public places.

"Overall, our study supports the need for multiple interventions," said lead author Dr. Wan Yang, assistant professor of epidemiology at Columbia Mailman School. "We need to implement all of those simultaneously in order to effectively mitigate the spread of COVID-19."

The study appears ahead of peer review in the preprint server medRxiv, however, researchers said it falls in line with previous modeling studies estimating lockdowns reduced transmission in Wuhan, China, Italy and France.

Experts predict more death if rich countries hoard COVID-19 vaccines
Researchers found if rich countries monopolize COVID-19 vaccines instead of distributing them equally, it could cause twice as many coronavirus deaths, according to models by Northeastern University’s MOBS Lab.

The models found 61% of deaths could be averted if the vaccine was distributed to all countries proportional to population, while only 33% of deaths would be averted if high-income countries got the vaccines first.

There are many confounding factors in this model, including how many people will be immune to the virus in the upcoming months, how efficient the vaccine actually will be and what will countries’ distribution resources look like.

But researchers still say the results are clear: "When countries cooperate, the number of deaths is cut in half," said Matteo Chinazzi, senior research scientist.

Coronavirus vaccines developed in China may be ready by November
An official with the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention said four COVID-19 vaccines in the final stage of clinical trials could be ready for the general public in November or December, according to Reuters.

CDC chief biosafety expert Guizhen Wu said in an interview with a state TV program Monday she had taken one of the experimental vaccines in April and didn’t experience any adverse effects, but she didn’t specify which vaccine she took.

At least three Chinese candidate vaccines already have been offered to essential workers under an emergency-use program in July.

Trump admin. still owes USPS $28M for COVID-19 postcards
The Trump administration has not yet repaid the United States Postal Service more than six months after the agency sent out COVID-19 guidelines on postcards prominently featuring the president’s name. 

USA TODAY reported earlier this year the total cost of printing and mailing the postcards was $28 million, with a total printing cost of $4.6 million, and the Trump administration was negotiating the reimbursement with the Postal Service for the cost. 

The postcards were sent to more than 138 million residential addresses. 

"President Trump's coronavirus guidelines for America" was emblazoned on one side of the postcard in uppercase letters. The other side of the card included social distancing recommendations, encouraging Americans to avoid restaurants and bars, forgo discretionary travel and cancel social gatherings with more than 10 people.