Will my stimulus check be affected if I owe taxes?
... or child support?

... or overdue on student loan payments?

While the CARES Act suspends debts like overdue student loans or back taxes that typically lead to the garnishment of tax refunds, it doesn't apply to delinquent child support payments. That means the government's relief checks will still be garnished if you're overdue. And some spouses who are filing joint tax returns with their late-paying partners are upset their stimulus money is being trimmed or withheld, even if they typically qualify for relief in situations like tax refunds.

Even if your spouse is solely responsible for the debt, a shared tax refund or stimulus check could be at risk.

.... If I owe child support, does the stimulus money go to my ex?

The stimulus payment that is reduced or withheld by the child support owed will go to the appropriate collecting office for the taxpayer's state. From there, that collecting office will issue the money to the custodial parent, the person due the child support. 

More information here.

— Jessica Menton

Follow Jessica on Twitter @JessicaMenton.

When will I get my stimulus check?
The Internal Revenue Service is expected to launch an online tool as soon as Wednesday to get a better clue on when you'll see your Economic Impact Payment via IRS.gov/eip. The IRS said the tool will let you go online to check the status of a payment, including the date it's scheduled to be deposited or mailed.

If you do not see the money in your bank account in two weeks, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said you can go to IRS.gov to see "Get My Payment." If you filed a 2018 or 2019 tax return and did not receive a stimulus payment, he said, make sure to have your tax return information available to use at the "Get My Payment" tool later this week.

— Susan Tompor

Follow Susan on Twitter: @tompor.

Is that money in my account my stimulus check?
Taxpayers are telling their friends, and yes, posting news on social media, that they're already seeing stimulus cash arrive in their bank accounts.

Some consumers spotted the first direct deposits as early as Saturday; others started seeing more information as of Monday. The IRS even tweeted Saturday evening that the agency deposited the first Economic Impact Payments into bank accounts on Saturday.

Some people in Michigan who checked their bank accounts online in the past few days spotted that $1,200 or more will be available in their bank accounts as of April 15.

Interestingly: The wording being used is "IRS Treas 310" (cut-in Michigan) so don't expect to see words like "stimulus checks" or "recovery rebate" or "economic impact payment" on your bank statement. 

— Susan Tompor

Follow Susan on Twitter: @tompor.

Will Social Security recipients receive a stimulus check?
Social Security beneficiaries and other Americans who haven’t filed income taxes for the past two years won’t have to take any extra steps to receive one-time checks. 

Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin said the IRS will use Social Security data to generate payments to recipients who did not file tax returns in 2018 or 2019. 

— Michael Collins

Follow Michael on Twitter @mcollinsNEWS. 

Will people in retirement get a stimulus check?
As long as your adjusted gross income in 2019 was no more than $99,000 (if you file separately) or $198,000 (if you file jointly), you will receive some money. The law does not make a distinction between those who are working and those who are retired.

— Ledyard King

Follow Ledyard on Twitter @LedgeKing.

One of my workers is asking if they can go on unemployment and not work because he is living with two elderly people. Can he do this?
... We have work for him, however, he does not want to work due to the chances of infection towards his elderly roommates.

If your employee has a specific reason to worry he may have been exposed to the virus and needs to stop work, he could be eligible for benefits. If not, quitting and filing for such benefits without cause can be deemed fraud by federal officials.

— Charisse Jones

Follow Charisse on Twitter @charissejones. 

I have a military pension, am I still eligible for unemployment from a civilian job?
... If so, will my benefits be reduced due to the pension?

Yes, you should be eligible for unemployment and a military pension should not offset it.

— Charisse Jones

Follow Charisse on Twitter @charissejones.  