"The number of nursing homes that have taken the necessary steps to protect residents from the asymptomatic spread of COVID-19 while working to reopen to outside visitors, shows that adhering to the DOH visitation guideline is the smart and cautious approach to allowing visitations," he added.

Zucker said the department will continue "to be guided by science and concern for residents' welfare" as it monitors the policy change.

Visitors will be required to present a verified negative test result within the last seven days and they will be refused entry if they exhibit any COVID-19 symptoms, do not present the negative test result, or do not pass a screening test, the state said.

The number of visitors cannot exceed 10% of the resident census at any given time, officials said, and only two visitors will be permitted per resident at any time.

Trick or treating, despite COVID-19
As the school year kicks off the unofficial start of the fall season, Cuomo announced Tuesday that Halloween is still on in New York, despite the virus.

"I would not ban trick-or-treaters going door to door," Cuomo said as some states and municipalities consider bans and limits to Halloween this year.

"I don't think that's appropriate," Cuomo told News 12 Long Island in an interview provided by the governor’s office. "You have neighbors — if you want to go knock on your neighbor's door, God bless you and I can’t tell you not to. If you want to go for a walk with your child through the neighborhood, I'm not going to tell you [that you] can't take your child to the neighborhood. I'm not going to do that. I'll give you my advice and guidance and then you will make a decision what you do that night."

The state’s level of COVID-19 positive tests reached 1% on Monday, after more than a month tracking below that level, Cuomo said Tuesday.

Out of 73,678 COVID-19 tests completed statewide Monday, 766 were confirmed positive, according to state data released Tuesday. The positives included 77 in Nassau County, 71 in Suffolk County, and 306 in New York City.

The infection level on Long Island was 1.2% and in New York City, 1.1%.

Statewide, 11 people died of COVID-19-related causes on Monday, including one in Nassau and one in Suffolk.

State Liquor Authority agents and state troopers inspected 1,109 establishments on Monday on Long Island and in New York City, and issued summonses to five of them for violating state mandates aimed at curbing the virus's spread. Four of the businesses are in Suffolk County.

Sign up to get COVID-19 text alerts.
New York’s travelers’ quarantine list
Travelers in New York State’s “travel advisory” list, due to community spread of the COVID-19 virus, are required to quarantine for 14 days. The quarantine applies to any person arriving from an area with a positive test rate higher than 10 per 100,000 residents over a seven-day rolling average, or an area with a 10% or higher positivity rate over a seven-day rolling average. The following is the updated list of states and other jurisdictions whose travelers face those restrictions in New York as of Sept. 15: