My stimulus check was sent to an account I don't recognize. Where's my stimulus check?
While many people received their stimulus deposit, other payments may have gotten inadvertently sent to temporary accounts created during the tax filing process. The IRS said it is moving to provide additional information and resolve any issues as soon as possible.

After you file your taxes with a tax professional, transfer banks such as MetaBank, Republic Bank and Santa Barbara Tax Product Group set up temporary accounts for taxpayers who want a refund advance or to deduct tax preparation fees from a refund. 

"Those last four digits on the Get My Payment portal match the transfer provider's information that has been submitted to the IRS," said Natalie Parchment, a tax preparation consultant.

— Dalvin Brown and Jessica Menton

Follow Dalvin on Twitter @dalvin_brown and Jessica on @JessicaMenton.

Will the additional $600 unemployment payment be taxable?
Yes. Unemployment benefits are considered taxable income, according to the IRS. Those benefits typically last for 26 weeks, but Congress added 13 additional weeks on top of that for a total of 39 weeks. Unemployed workers will get an extra $600 per week of unemployment benefits on top of their unemployment checks, which will be paid retroactively to March 29 or when you became unemployed.

— Jessica Menton

Follow Jessica on Twitter @JessicaMenton.

If my income is higher in 2020, will I have to pay back my stimulus check?
No. If the amount of the credit a taxpayer qualifies for in 2020 is less than it was based on their 2019 return, it doesn’t have to be paid back, according to the Tax Foundation.

If your income is less in 2020, you will receive the difference of the credit if it is in your favor. If your income drops this year, for instance, you’ll be eligible for any remaining credit that you weren’t able to claim using your 2019 or 2018 return. 

— Jessica Menton

Follow Jessica on Twitter @JessicaMenton.

How do you file for unemployment if you were supposed to start a job but it fell through because of the coronavirus?
... I was supposed to start a job in New York State but I live in Pennsylvania, with which state do I apply for unemployment insurance?

You should apply in the state where you were supposed to work. You might be able to get documentation from your prospective employer stating that the job was impacted by the virus.

— Charisse Jones

Follow Charisse on Twitter @charissejones. 

Is the $600 from the federal government retroactive?
... I have been out of work since March 17 and my wife applied for unemployment on March 18, before the CARES act. 

Answer: Depending on when your state entered into its agreement with the federal government, the $600 payment could be retroactive back to March 28.

— Charisse Jones

Follow Charisse on Twitter @charissejones. 

Will I get a stimulus check if I defaulted on my student loans?
Under the CARES Act, the government won’t withhold the money you owe for defaulted federal student loans out of your payment. It blocks the IRS from garnishing your tax refund for those late loan payments. Also, the government won't ding your wages or withhold social security payments for six months under the relief package.

... What if my tax refund was already garnished?

If your tax refund was withheld because you defaulted on a federal student loan on or after March 13, which was the day President Donald Trump declared a national emergency, it will be returned to you, according to the Department of Education. That also applies to garnished wages and withheld Social Security benefits.

... Does it apply to private loans?

No. Private debt collectors could still garnish student loan debts.

If you have trouble paying, contact your lender for options.

— Jessica Menton

Follow Jessica on Twitter @JessicaMenton.