— Recommendations are independently chosen by Reviewed’s editors. Purchases you make through our links may earn us a commission.

It's hard to believe the holidays are approaching, meaning once again, it's time to show your loved ones (and your coworkers and third-cousins) how much they mean to you. I think we can all admit that gift buying can be tough. Everyone has different interests and you don’t want to feel too generic. 

That’s where the shopping experts at Reviewed come in. We’ve spent the entire year testing products to see what's actually worth the money, covering everything from vacuums to reusable straws. Not only that, but we've closely monitored shopping trends, as well, and have great insight on what gifts are going to be the most popular this season. From streaming subscriptions to Apple AirPods to cast iron skillets, these are the 30 gifts everyone will be asking for this year, according to our product experts. 

1. Roku Streaming Stick+
Best gifts of 2020: Roku Streaming Stick+
Best gifts of 2020: Roku Streaming Stick+ (Photo: Reviewed / TJ Donegan)

Alongside a subscription to Disney+, your giftee is going to want a way to watch it on the small screen (alongside Netflix, Hulu, and HBO Max). The Roku Streaming Stick+ is the best affordable streaming device we’ve ever tested and will allow them to binge-watch their favorite shows on their TV instead of their computer screen. It’s fast and offers full 4K and HDR for the ultimate binge watching experience. It's the second best thing to getting them a new smart TV with Roku built-in.

Get the Roku Streaming Stick+ at Amazon for $49.99

2. Lodge Cast Iron Skillet
Best gifts of 2020: Lodge Cast Iron Skillet
Best gifts of 2020: Lodge Cast Iron Skillet (Photo: Lodge)

Anyone who's getting into cooking lately will surely appreciate a cast iron skillet. Why? Well, they're the cookware that can do it all. You can use them on the stovetop, in the oven, on the grill—you can even use it to cook over a campfire. Plus, they create a sear that seriously upgrades whatever you're making. Lodge makes our favorite affordable cast iron skillet. It's only $20 but will last for years to come. 

Get the Lodge Pre-Seasoned 12 Inch. Cast Iron Skillet at Walmart for $19.90

3. Disney+ Subscription
Best gifts of 2020: Disney+ Subscription.
Best gifts of 2020: Disney+ Subscription. (Photo: Disney)

Shiny, new Disney+ was last year’s hottest streaming service and the obsession with it has not slowed down. With new movie and TV show offerings like Hamilton and the live-action Mulan, there's always a reason to want Disney+. Plus, with access to pretty much every Disney, Pixar, Star Wars, and Marvel movie, it’ll surely bring a smile to anyone’s face. You can give a one-year subscription for your recipient and Disney+ will email instructions on how to redeem it to your loved one on the day you choose. Also, don't forget a streaming stick (our favorite is the Roku Streaming Stick+), so they can watch Disney on the small screen.

Get a Disney+ gift subscription at Disney+ for $69.99