The rate of suicide among those aged 10 to 24 increased nearly 60% between 2007 and 2018, according to a report released Friday by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The rise occurred in most states, with 42 experiencing significant increases.

"It's a real trend that has been demanding, for a while, a serious public health and research effort to understand what is happening and why," said Anna Mueller, an associate professor of sociology at Indiana University Bloomington who studies suicides in adolescents. "I don't buy that it's just social media, which is one of the explanations that I most consistently see."

The suicide rate increased from 6.8 per 100,000 in 2007 to 10.7 in 2018. The report compared three-year averages of suicide rates for 2007–2009 and 2016–2018 and found:


The 2016–2018 suicide rate among persons aged 10–24 was highest for Alaska (31.4 per 100,000). 
States with the highest suicide rates for that period include South Dakota (23.6), Montana (23.2), Wyoming (20.5) and New Mexico (19.6). 
States in the Northeast were among those with the lowest suicide rates: New Jersey (5.7), Rhode Island (5.9), New York (5.9), Connecticut (6.3), and Massachusetts (6.4).
Even states with the lowest rates experienced significant increases: New Jersey had an increase of 39%, New York about 44%, and Massachusetts about 64%.

Pandemic mental health:A new CDC study shows who we need to worry about most

In the last decade, suicide has become increasingly common among young people. There are theories on drivers, the rise of social media among them, but researchers say there are not enough data to draw conclusions. Suicide rates are not increasing in every country that has seen a rise in social media use.

Suicide prevention experts have lamented a lack of real-time data to better assess trends. The latest CDC report, for example, is based on deaths from 2018.

"We're making decisions about suicide prevention programming for 2021 and beyond based on data that are 3 years old," said Jonathan Singer, president of the American Association of Suicidology and associate professor at Loyola University's School of Social Work.

Possible factors driving the suicide rate
Public health experts are considering a variety of possible causes for the increase. From 2000 to 2007, the youth suicide rate was relatively stable. In late 2007, the country entered an economic recession.

"I don't think we can underestimate the role of the economic recession of 2008 on youth suicide rates," Singer said. "During the recession they saw their parents lose homes and jobs; they had to move schools. They lost friends. My concern is that we will see an increase in youth suicide several years down the line following the economic devastation of the COVID-19 pandemic."

A CDC survey in August on how the COVID-19 pandemic is affecting Americans' mental health found 75% of respondents 18-24 reported at least one adverse mental or behavioral health symptom. Twenty-five percent of respondents in this age group  seriously considered suicide in the 30 days before completing the survey.

Experts say stressors such as climate change, which has been found to have roughly the same effect on suicides as an economic recession, has become an increasing concern for young people. Fear of school shootings and the prohibitive cost of college may also be factors. Many children, experts say, are struggling to imagine their futures.

Frame grab from a TV public service announcement for the "We Can Help Us" advertising campaign.  The campaign is hoping to provide support for teens who are experiencing problems, and to curb the incidents of teen suicide in the country.
Spotty mental health screening, poor access to mental health services and stigma may also be obstacles to getting help to those considering suicide. 

What's needed, Mueller said, is something akin to the National Longitudinal Study of Adolescent Health, which looked at a nationally representative sample of adolescents in grades 7 through 12 during the 1994-1995 school year and followed them into young adulthood. A study of this kind would help public health experts better understand what may be driving the increases and how best to intervene. 


Children are vulnerable, but suicidal thoughts are not uncommon
Adolescence is a vulnerable time, experts say. It's when children are developing their sense of self — who they are and who they can be.

"As adults, we really rely on a core sense of who we are to get through some of those rough times in life. We pull a lot of stability out of that," Mueller said.

When kids hit adolescence, they experience so many changes at once, including puberty. Their environments often change as they enter high school, which is typically larger and less personal. These changes can weaken safety nets.

There are unique circumstances that trigger suicide among different populations, experts say, which is why prevention efforts cannot be based on white male adolescents.

'We're losing our kids':Black youth suicide rate rising far faster than for whites

George Floyd video adds to trauma:'When is the last time you saw a white person killed online?'

Q&A:What do we tell our children about racial violence?

"We absolutely need to be really careful to not think about suicide as just a white kid problem," Mueller said. "It's absolutely not. Kids across racial and ethnic groups and sexual orientations experience suicidal thoughts, and even attempt at significant rates."

But Mueller cautioned not to lose sight of the fact that suicidal thoughts are not uncommon, especially among young people. 

"It is fairly normal for kids to have thoughts of suicide at times during adolescence and early adulthood," she said. "We need to be prepared to talk about it openly and honestly."