Can I still collect unemployment in Pennsylvania if I have heart disease and I'm considered "high risk"?
... My employer called me back to work in early June and I went back for four days before filling out the form for an unpaid leave of absence. People at work were not social distancing or wearing masks and they also were touching my equipment in my presence.


If you have been advised by a healthcare professional to self-quarantine to avoid health risks, you may be eligible for Pandemic Unemployment Assistance if all other eligibility requirements are met, Lisa Greene-Lewis, a certified public accountant at TurboTax, says.

— Jessica Menton

Follow Jessica on Twitter: @JessicaMenton.

What if you were receiving the $600 every week and then it stopped?
... Will it continue or has it stopped for New Jersey? Do you need to contact anyone?

If you are still receiving unemployment benefits, the extra $600 should continue until July 25 in New Jersey. If the missed money doesn’t show up in your next payment, you should contact the state’s unemployment benefits office.

— Charisse Jones

Follow Charisse on Twitter @charissejones.

If someone goes back to work at less than 30 hours a week does that negate the extra $600 a week?
If you are back to work full time, you will no longer receive jobless benefits. If you are back to work part-time, you can receive partial unemployment insurance which should include the extra $600 a week. But how much a person can earn from work and still receive unemployment differs greatly depending on the state, and the cutoff threshold can be quite low.  You can check page 17 of the following link to get a state by state breakdown.

— Charisse Jones

Follow Charisse on Twitter @charissejones.

When is the extra $600 federal unemployment cutoff?
The additional $600 in weekly jobless benefits provided by the federal government is officially set to end July 31. But states will pay it only through the week ending July 25 or July 26, a significant blow to unemployed workers counting on that money to bolster state benefits that average just $370 a week.


"The (Federal Pandemic Unemployment Compensation) $600 can be paid for weeks ending no later than the week ending prior to Friday, July 31, 2020,'' the U.S. Department of Labor said in a statement. "For all states except (New York), that is Saturday, July 25th. New York’s end date is Sunday, July 26th."

The confusion lies in the fine print. Unemployment benefits are paid by states on a weekly or biweekly basis with a defined end date on Saturday or Sunday. But the federal legislation known as the CARES Act, which authorized the additional compensation, says the benefit will end “on or before July 31” – a Friday.

That means, given the payment schedules of most states, the last week of the extra $600 payments will end the prior Saturday or Sunday. 

— Charisse Jones, Coral Murphy-Marcos and Brent Schrotenboer

Can I get pandemic unemployment if I haven't worked since 2018?
No.

“Someone who has no earnings and no attachment to the workforce since August 2018, and is not unemployed or partially employed as a result of COVID is not eligible for benefits,” said Jason Moon, a spokesman for the Unemployment Insurance Agency in Michigan. And that’s likely to be the same response from most states, if not all states, according to experts.

Rachael Kohl, director of the Workers’ Rights Clinic at the University of Michigan Law School, said it’s highly unlikely anyone in that situation of voluntarily leaving the work force in 2018 and not returning would be able to collect any jobless benefits now.

“If you weren’t trying to work, you don’t get to collect unemployment benefits now,” Kohl said.

— Susan Tompor

Follow Susan on Twitter: @tompor.

How much and where do I pay taxes on the extra $600 a week from unemployment?
There are a few ways you can pay taxes on your unemployment.

You can choose to have them taken out when applying online for jobless benefits for some states. Or you can fill out Federal Form W-4V Voluntary Withholding Request and have federal taxes automatically have taxes taken out, according to Greene-Lewis. When you fill out the form you can request to have up to 10% taken out, she added. 

Once you are working again, if you have an employer you can adjust your federal tax withholding using Form W-4. If you are self-employed, you can make adjustments in your estimated tax payments when it is time to pay. The first and second federal estimated tax deadlines were extended to July 15.

