72. Understand privilege

"It is also important, as white people, for us to remember that we will never 'get it.' We are all subject to racist ideas and we will never fully understand the experience of our Black community members, no matter how much we read, study, think or learn, or how many Black friends we have, or even if we have Black romantic partners or children," Taylor said.

73. Question yourself about privilege

In order to understand privilege, you can ask yourself questions. For example, were you ever called names because of your race, class, ethnicity, gender, or sexual orientation? Also consider your own possible racial biases, which may be implicit even though you think you are being open-minded. 

74. Actively acknowledge and support members of the LGBTQ+ communities

Part of the movements and protests is to create space for all marginalized people to share their voices, especially for Black people who also identify as LGBTQ+. Making space, amplifying those voices and defending people in LGBTQ+ communities is multifaceted, whether that's having honest conversations with those closest to you or supporting organizations and brands that provide safe spaces.

75. Do the research 

"It is equally vital that all of us, and white folks, in particular, do the ongoing personal work to read and educate ourselves on the ways that racism shows up in our own lives, neighborhoods, schools, and communities," Taylor said. Research your state's civil rights history to be better informed about your community's legacy and racial roots.

76. Avoid being silent

“Particularly white people who want to be allies, stop it, call it out. Say, ‘That’s not funny.’ Silence looks a lot like complicity," Associate Professor of Criminal Justice, Director of the Center for Advanced Policing and Assistant Provost of Diversity and Inclusion at the University of New Haven Lorenzo Boyd told USA TODAY. "You have to physically say, 'That’s not cool, you can’t say that.’ “

77. Accept you'll make mistakes and apologize

"Recognize that you might mess up, and if you do, apologize sincerely, and keep learning and growing," Taylor said. Be mindful of questioning something considered prejudiced or racist. Doing so does not promote discussion, but instead undermines historic personal pain.

78. Avoid commenting on character traits

 “I can’t change my eyes or my hair or my skin color, or to some extent my weight or my height, so things that are physical traits or character traits, we shouldn’t be commenting on. We can talk about behavior," Boyd says. For example, we no longer say, “She’s just blond. Or, she’s having a blond moment," Boyd explains.

79. Don't perform antiracism 

 "For my white friends and colleagues, in particular, I think it is really important for us to be sure we are not performing antiracism," Taylor explained. "Antiracism and allyship are not badges or identities, or about woke-looking T-shirts or passionate posts on social media. Rather, antiracism is a series of intentional and ongoing actions."

Support Black-owned businesses
80. Actively seek out Black businesses to support

The first way to support Black-owned businesses is to actively work on finding them and frequenting them. The Official Black Wallstreet app helps businesses gain exposure and gives people an easy way to search for companies.

81. Support Black restaurants in your area

If you're eating out and want your dollars to go toward Black-owned eateries, there are tasty options to try. Ben's Chili Bowl in Washington, D.C., Brooklyn's BK9 and Minneapolis' Angelea’s Soul Food Kitchen are just some of the offerings available – research your city's restaurants and who owns them. The EatOkra app allows you to search for Black-owned restaurants in your area.

82. Support beauty brands by Black creators

Looking for beauty brands as well? Dehiya Beauty, The Honey Pot Co. and Beneath Your Mask are all options from Black founders that can be found in stores or online.

83. Support fitness brands by Black creators

A few examples include AARMY, Alicia Archer, Ingrid Clay and Speir Pilates.

84. Support Black-led food brands
