18. 'Ammonite'
Unfortunately, the all-star teamup of Winslet and Ronan as 19th-century lovers is a lush slog that's often hard to dig. Written and directed by Lee, the film finds famed paleontologist Mary Anning (Winslet) hunting fossils in her Southern English town. It's an isolated life until a wealthy visiting scientist (James McArdle) leaves his wife Charlotte (Ronan) for Mary's keeping. Although there are differences in class and personality, a relationship forms between the two women and leads to a raw and passionate love affair. The slow-burn drama suffers from a definite lack of character development, and there's not enough real connection to earn the hot-and-heavy stuff.

Naomi Watts stars as a paralyzed woman who mothers a magpie back to health as she recovers as well in "Penguin Bloom."
17. 'Penguin Bloom' 
Down Under melodrama is in store for this film that, if nothing else, will have you fully and emotionally invested in a magpie. Naomi Watts stars as athletic Australian mom Sam who suffers a freak-accident fall off a roof and is left paralyzed from the chest down after a broken back. Her way back from a depressive state begins when one of her three boys takes in an injured bird. Named Penguin, the family's new feathered friend wins over the whole family (including Andrew Lincoln as a doting dad). Sam takes a key role in nursing the bird, and both Penguin and Sam navigate a shared journey of taking wing again in their own ways.

Madeleine Sims-Fewer co-writes, co-directs and stars as a woman on a bloody quest for vengeance after a sexual assault in the horror film "Violation."
16. 'Violation'
Madeleine Sims-Fewer co-directs and also stars in this intense and realistic horror psychodrama, providing a searing portrayal of a vengeful woman. Told in nonlinear fashion and not an easy watch even for those who appreciate their gore, the plot centers on Miriam (Sims-Fewer) and a needed getaway trip with her boyfriend (Obi Abili), her estranged sister (Anna Maguire) and her sibling's husband (Jesse LaVercombe). Hard feelings are expressed but worse, a sexual assault happens one night, sending Miriam on a hardcore mission to deal with the betrayal in an extremely violent way – the kind that arguably deserves the business end of a hacksaw.

Alma Pöysti stars as Tove Jansson in "Tove," a biopic about the Finnish artist's work and love life.
15. 'Tove'
Think "Portrait of a Lady on Fire" with comic-strip characters and you get this immersive biopic about Finnish artist Tove Jansson (Alma Pöysti). At the end of World War II in Helsinki, dance-happy Tove works to be a painter and carries on an affair with a married politician (Shanti Roney) but falls for hard for well-to-do theater director Vivica Bandler (Krista Kosonen). Tove's passion for Vivica remains strong even though her love is fleetingly requited in the ensuing years, as the artist's side project "The Moomins" – inspired by cartoons she drew for children in bunkers during the wars – becomes an international hit.

Chloe Grace Moretz is a World War II flight officer who battles a monster on her plane in the horror action thriller "Shadow in the Cloud."
14. 'Shadow in the Cloud'
Proudly pulpy and just the right level of bonkers, director Roseanne Liang's World War II horror thriller is a mother lode of midnight-movie madness starring Chloe Grace Moretz as a female flight officer carrying important cargo who's assigned to a Flying Fortress filled with dudes. They stick her in the ball turret, where she weathers misogynistic nonsense from these bozos over the radio. But when everything goes to heck and there's a monster on board dismantling their ride – plus Axis enemies flying past – Moretz's heroine is the only one with enough chutzpah to save one absolutely crazy day that pays homage to old-school WWII airman superstitions.

Reggaeton star J Balvin realizes a dream of playing a stadium show in his Colombian hometown and also wrestles with his mental health in the documentary "The Boy from Medellín."
