"I felt both happy and sad," said Gross, noticing that his favorite brother David wasn't beside him. He later learned that David died of starvation in the camp. Gross also lost his parents, two brothers and a sister, and several other relatives.  

Gross settled in Philadelphia, where his aunts lived. He married and had three sons, but never discussed his Holocaust experiences with any of them.  

Ernie Gross, of Philadelphia, recalls his story of survival, Friday, July 31, 2020, as he describes living on small rations of bread and potatoes during his captivity at Auschwitz-Birkenau and Dachau.
Ending the silence 
Gross' first wife Bella, also a victim of the Holocaust, never spoke of her time in the Nazi death camps. When she died, he realized he lost a part of her that no one would ever know.    

“I was going through my life at night, thinking of her, and I found the energy to speak.” 

That first trip to the podium didn’t come easy.  

“I was trying to tell my story, but I couldn’t do it,” said Gross, remembering people approaching him with napkins to wipe his nose and eyes. “I couldn’t continue like that. So when I got to the point I couldn’t speak, I threw in a joke, and sure enough it worked perfectly.” 

The more he joked, the more he laughed and the easier it became to share. 

Over the last 10 years, he’s spoken dozens of times, and most times with a bag of props — a loaf of bread, seven cigarette butts and a potato.  

He says the potato is symbolic, a reminder of what he learned at the camp and what he had to “unlearn,” the "selfish" survival skills.  


The Hebrew word, tzedakah, which encourages charity, came to mind.  

He said he realized that only through acts of generosity and charity could he begin to “retrain” his brain to fight the selfish tendencies he learned at the camp.  

When students hear his story, they ask questions like, “How can you believe in God? How do you forgive?” 

He tells them: "If you don’t forgive, it means you're angry. If you forgive, your body can relax and you keep on functioning."

Rising above hate 
Still, in today's world, there are images of hate that are hard to stomach, including the video of George Floyd dying beneath the knee of a white police officer.  

“I had to close my eyes when I saw that.” In all his years, he said, “I cannot figure out how one person could hate another so badly.” 

Even after sharing his story hundreds of times, it’s never easy to recount the horrors of the Holocaust. But he feels it's his duty to teach others the power of hope and the healing power of forgiveness. 

“We all come from the same source; it doesn’t matter where you came from or what you look like. People shouldn’t get angry because someone is different. We have to learn to get along ... we have to learn to forgive.

“I believe in that throughout my life. And if you don’t lose hope, you could live longer and be happier. No matter what happens, tomorrow can be better. That is why I'm 91 and am still here.” 