LEVITTOWN, Pa. – Ernie Gross learned to find hope and humor in the darkest of places.

It was not an easy task for Gross, who from a very young age was known as “the boy who never laughed.”     

At school, his teacher ignored him, turning the other way when classmates mocked his kosher lunch, held him down, and rubbed ham and bacon on his lips.      

“My youth was going from bad to worse,” said Gross.

That was before Hungarian soldiers showed up at his home in Romania on the last day of Passover in April 1944. They forced Gross, his six siblings and parents from their home and told them to go to the town’s synagogue or be shot. Weeks later, they were boarded on a crowded cattle train destined for Auschwitz.    

Ernie Gross, of Philadelphia, recalls his story of survival, Friday, July 31, 2020, as he describes living on small rations of bread and potatoes during his captivity at Auschwitz-Birkenau and Dachau.
What came next took decades to reveal.

From his home in Northeast Philadelphia one recent day, Gross told his story through his thick Romanian accent, painting a vivid picture of a harrowing journey that took more than 60 years to disclose, even to his three children.

Today, the 91-year-old is among a declining number of Holocaust survivors alive and able to share his story. This year marks the 75th anniversary of his liberation from Dachau, and Gross continues to speak at synagogues, churches, rotary events and now on Zoom calls to spread the message that hope prevails above hate.    

It’s a message, he says, that’s as relevant to surviving in today’s world as it was that day he stepped off the train.

Ernie Gross, a holocaust survivor living in Philadelphia, leafs through the pages of a Siddur prayer book, as he shares his story Friday, July 31, 2020.
'I didn't have a name'
He was just 15 then.    

Upon arriving at Auschwitz, Gross lost sight of his parents, who were ahead holding onto his younger sister and brother. Surrounded by German soldiers, Gross stood in a line with his two older brothers, and noticed a prisoner working at the camp looking at him.

When the soldiers weren’t looking, the prisoner jumped off the train and approached him. “How old are you? You better say you’re 17. Because if you’re 15, you’ll go where your parents went.”


The man pointed to the sky. "You see the dark smoke? In four hours, it’s going to be your parents."

Gross watched as an SS officer directed his brothers to the right, in the direction of those going to the work camp. In the other direction were the gas chambers.

“My turn came,” Gross recalled. The guard was silent. "He was not saying anything ... That made me more nervous. He was scanning me, trying to figure out where to put me." Gross mustered up the nerve to act older. “I'm going to stand up straight and tall and (talk) strongly. When I did that, he told me to go to the right.”

He joined his two brothers as they stood in a big building packed with prisoners. They didn't say a word about the fate of their parents and younger siblings.    

They were stripped of everything they had — clothes, hair and, soon, their names.

“My number was 71366. I didn’t have a name, just my number.”       


Learning to survive
When Gross first saw the barracks and witnessed how prisoners were living, “I can’t even tell you how lonely and helpless I was.”    

He had been separated from his brothers. They went to one camp, while he was imprisoned in a camp 50 kilometers from Munich, Germany.     

Life over the next year was a test in survival. For nearly a year, he shifted from one camp to another, hoping to avoid "Camp 7,” where those who were unable to work went and where no food was provided.   


“I was determined to live,” said Gross. That took creative rationing and reasoning.     

A small aluminum container held his daily ration of coffee and soup, and he kept this with him at all times. “If we were lucky, we would get a little piece of potato in the soup."

A small loaf of bread about 10 inches long had to be split among eight prisoners, he said. Gross broke his into small crumbs that he would nibble on throughout the day, and one morning he asked a neighboring prisoner why he didn’t do the same.    

The man replied: “How do I know I'll be here for lunch?"

“Those kinds of people died first because they gave up hope. I made up my mind every day when I got up that no matter what life would give me, I wanted to be here for the next day. I never gave up," Gross said.

One day, a father begged his son to swap slices, both arguing that they needed the larger piece more. To survive was to be selfish, Gross saw, even with family. He learned this first hand after his cousin, also imprisoned, refused to share even a sliver of skin of a whole potato he had.

The food was never enough to keep prisoners alive for very long.     

“It was not unusual for me to get up in the morning to see that neither of my neighbors got up. They died through the night. There was a group of prisoners ... their job was to go to all the barracks to take out the dead people and put them in small wagons. Most died of starvation.”

Gross needed to find another source of food.   

He learned that some prisoners, who were former smokers, offered their bread for at least seven cigarette butts, so Gross scoured the train stations where he cleaned toilets.   

“It took me two weeks to find seven butts, but I knew that I would live seven days longer.”   

