How exactly do you return a stimulus check that was sent to a dead person?
... A family member just received her stimulus benefit via direct deposit. Thing is, she’s been dead for three years. Are we required to give the money back?

Here's what the IRS said people need to do if they must return an Economic Impact Payment, such as one issued to a deceased person. 

If the payment was a paper check:

Write "Void" in the endorsement section on the back of the check.
Mail the voided Treasury check immediately to the appropriate IRS location listed below.
Don't staple, bend, or paper clip the check.
Include a note stating the reason for returning the check. 
And if you cashed that paper check already, or you received the stimulus money via direct deposit, the IRS said you should: 

Submit a personal check, money order, etc., immediately to the appropriate IRS location listed at IRS.gov.
Write on the check/money order made payable to “U.S. Treasury” and write 2020EIP, and the taxpayer identification number (Social Security number, or individual taxpayer identification number) of the recipient of the check.
Include a brief explanation of the reason for returning the EIP.
The IRS could try to charge you interest and penalties at some point if you do not return the money. 

— Susan Tompor

Follow Susan on Twitter: @tompor.

I was claimed as a dependent on someone else's tax return. Can I file my own 2019 return and receive stimulus check?
If you were claimed as a dependent on someone else's tax return for 2019, you are out of luck for now. However, the stimulus payments are technically an advance credit on your 2020 taxes, so you could possibly claim the payment when you file your 2020 returns early next year, as long as someone else does not claim you as a dependent for 2020.

— Michael Collins

Follow Michael on Twitter @mcollinsNEWS. 

Does the extra $600 added to your weekly unemployment affect your maximum benefit amount?
No. The maximum benefit is based on your previous income. The $600 is an extra that the unemployed can receive through the end of July.

— Charisse Jones

Follow Charisse on Twitter @charissejones.

I was released from prison last year and have been trying to find a job. Do I qualify for any benefits under the new programs?
... The jobs I qualify for are considered nonessential and it's dangerous to be out trying to find work right now while taking care of my elderly brother. We are receiving food stamps.

You may be eligible for a stimulus payment once you file a 2019 tax return. Current inmates cannot get a payment, but ex-offenders can qualify, even if they have no income. If you do not file with the IRS right now, you could be eligible for the stimulus payment when you file a 2020 return next year.

You also may be eligible for unemployment benefits, including the additional $600 per week in enhanced benefits  that the federal government has approved to help mitigate the financial impact of the coronavirus. Rules for unemployment benefits vary from state to state, but to qualify, you usually need to be actively looking for work and cannot turn down a job offer.

— Michael Collins

Follow Michael on Twitter @mcollinsNEWS. 

I haven't gotten my stimulus check. Can I still get one?
The first thing to check is if you qualify to receive a stimulus check under the CARES Act guidelines. If you do, it's important to remember that the government is sending out the payments in installments.

Payments were prioritized in order from lowest income to highest income.

For those with direct deposit information on file with the IRS, payments began going out on April 10. And last week to Social Security beneficiaries, railroad retirees and veterans who aren’t required to file a tax return, which will continue through May.

While the IRS started mailing checks in late April to those who qualify but do not have direct deposit information, that process might take several months.

— Sarah Skidmore

Associated Press

What do I do if I get an error message when tracking my stimulus check?
The IRS updated its "Get My Payment" tool to fix some headaches. But some people continue to get error messages in some cases.

The IRS advises that you go back and check your most recent tax return or consider whether there is a different way to enter your street address (for example, 123 N Main St vs 123 North Main St). 

"You may also verify how your address is formatted with the U.S. Postal Service by entering your address in the USPS ZIP Lookup tool, and then enter your address into Get My Payment exactly as it appears on file with USPS," the IRS said. 

— Susan Tompor

Follow Susan on Twitter: @tompor.

What is being discussed for the unemployed keeping heath care at a reasonable price?
If you had health coverage through your employer and lost your job, or if you received coverage as the dependent of someone who lost their job due to the pandemic, you could qualify for a special enrollment period to access the Affordable Care Act’s health exchange. If your lack of coverage is not related to the virus, then you have to wait until the fall to access the exchange. Regardless, anyone is eligible to receive a free COVID-19 test even if they’re not insured.

— Ledyard King

Follow Ledyard on Twitter @LedgeKing.

What if I did a paper return. How does that affect my stimulus?
Electronic filers are generally getting their money before those who mailed in their latest tax return because it’s easy to transfer the money to bank accounts they have on record. Regardless of how you filed, you can track your expected payment using the IRS Get My Payment tool. The timing of checks for those who filed paper returns last year is being complicated by the IRS' decision to stop processing paper returns due to COVID-19. That means there’s a delay not only in issuing checks but in determining how much you’re eligible to receive.

— Ledyard King

Follow Ledyard on Twitter @LedgeKing.

Do you get the extra $600 federal unemployment assistance per week?
... or $600 every two weeks added to your unemployment benefits?

You will receive $600 a week.

— Charisse Jones

Follow Charisse on Twitter @charissejones.

My husband was laid off for two and a half weeks due to COVID-19 and he did get his unemployment. Will he receive the extra $600 for the time he was off?
... We live in New York. He went back to work the last two days of last week. 

Depending on when states entered an agreement with the federal government, the additional $600 benefit could be retroactive back to March 28. And so yes, he should be able to get the extra $600 payment.

— Charisse Jones

Follow Charisse on Twitter @charissejones.

I was on vacation when the pandemic started. I'm unable to return home. Can I file for unemployment?
... I have an autoimmune disease. My employer is considered essential, but they have reduced hours for others.

Situations like this will likely be handled on a case by case basis. Employers have, of course, the right to protest a claim. But states are encouraging employers to make accommodations for individuals with health risks, whether it’s allowing them to work from home or in a safe work environment. If that’s not possible, then such individuals could be eligible for unemployment insurance.

 — Alfred Miller

Follow Alfred on Twitter @alfredfmiller.

As a person in early pregnancy, the CDC says stay home. Is my employer supposed to pay my salary?
It depends on whether your employer is required to offer paid leave. Large employers and very small ones generally aren’t required to offer it. You should check directly with your company.

— Charisse Jones

Follow Charisse on Twitter @charissejones.

My husband is in the national guard and might get called to active duty. If he gets called and I have to stay home with our child, do I still qualify for unemployment?
... I wont lose my job because I'm an essential employee, but I will have to step away or lose hours due to our child being out of school.

The CARES Act allows people who must stay home because their child’s school or day has been closed due to the coronavirus to receive some financial assistance. You can apply for the Pandemic Unemployment Assistance (PUA) for your state.

— Charisse Jones

Follow Charisse on Twitter @charissejones.