How to be #handsome like Theragun?

26. Theragun G3
Best gifts of 2020: Theragun
Best gifts of 2020: Theragun (Photo: Theragun).

Treat your giftee who's always complaining about their sore muscles with an at-home massage gun. They're the new foam rollers, and Theragun is the maker of some of the most popular ones on the market. After testing the G3 model, we found that its great for serious athletes as well as those who just need to get those kinks out of their muscles. Trust us, it hurts so good, they'll be going back for more.

Get the Theragun G3 at Theragun for $349

27. Nordstrom Moonlight Pajamas
Best gifts of 2020: Nordstrom Moonlight Dream Pajamas
Best gifts of 2020: Nordstrom Moonlight Dream Pajamas (Photo: Nordstrom)

Pajamas are the new work from home attire and they make a great gift because people usually don't buy them for themselves. Nordstrom sells insanely comfortable and stylish pajamas that shoppers swear by. They're called the Moonlight Pajamas, and they have a 4.6-star rating from more than 1,400 reviews. If you know her size, these would make a great gift for any lady on your list. Aside from long-sleeved, they come in various styles including cropped and short.

Get the Nordstrom Moonlight Pajamas at Nordstrom for $65
Get the Nordstrom Moonlight Dream Pajamas at Nordstrom for $65
Get the Nordstrom Moonlight Dream Crop Pajamas at Nordstrom for $55
Get the Nordstrom Moonlight Dream Short Pajamas at Nordstrom for $49
28. Capri Volcano Candle
Best gifts of 2020: Capri Blue Candle
Best gifts of 2020: Capri Blue Candle (Photo: Capri Blue)

One of the best candles on the market is the Capri Blue Candle from Anthropologie. It's just a fact. Iconic and intoxicating, the incredible Volcano scent will instantly make any room in your giftee’s home smell really good. Or, to get more specific, it’ll make it smell like the inside of an Anthropologie, which is never a bad thing.

Get the Capri Blue Iridescent Jar Candle at Anthropologie for $32

29. Gravity Blanket
Best gifts of 2020: Gravity Blanket
Best gifts of 2020: Gravity Blanket (Photo: Gravity Blanket)

Going on this year’s theme of at-home coziness, weighted blankets are going to be a big hit again. Plus, the weighted beads can have a calming effect—something we can all use right now. When we tested some of the best weighted blankets on the market, we found we liked snuggling up with the Gravity Blanket the most. This would be a great gift for anyone who loves cozying up with a warm cup of tea or needs an extra stress reliever in their life.

Get the Gravity Blanket from Gravity for $189

30. Polk Audio Signa S2 Soundbar
Best gifts of 2019: Polk Audio Signa S2
Best gifts of 2019: Polk Audio Signa S2 (Photo: Reviewed / Jackson Ruckar)

Everyone's been watching TV a lot more lately, and have probably noticed that the sound isn't the best. Thats where the upgrade of a soundbar comes in. Plus, you don't have to spend too much to get them a great one. The Polk Audio Signa S2 is our favorite affordable soundbar because it packs great sound and a sleek look into a reasonable price point. It also has different modes for movies, music, or night audio as well as three different "clear voice" settings to make watching TV shows and movies more enjoyable.  