Theodore Roosevelt Elementary School, James H. Vernon School and Oyster Bay High School were closed Tuesday "as a precaution," Seinfeld said in a letter. The students who tested positive were last in their school buildings on Friday, she said.

The Theodore Roosevelt Elementary School, James H. Vernon
The Theodore Roosevelt Elementary School, James H. Vernon School and Oyster Bay High School in the Oyster Bay-East Norwich school district were closed Tuesday after a student at each school tested positive for COVID-19, the district said. Credit: Howard Schnapp
All three Oyster Bay-East Norwich schools will reopen Wednesday, Seinfeld said Tuesday afternoon in a note sent home to families.

The health department identified close contacts who will be quarantined for 14 days, Seinfeld said. Those individuals "must receive a release-from-quarantine notice from the DOH and be cleared by the COVID Coordinator before they can return to school," Seinfeld said.

Elementary and middle school students have been reporting for in-person school every day in that district, while high school students are alternating between days of remote-only and in-person instruction, according to the district’s reopening plan. On Tuesday, the students were following a remote plan, but staff members were still expected to report to school, Seinfeld said.

In light of the three cases, the district changed its protocols on the health questionnaire for students and staff, now making it a requirement for families to complete daily, the superintendent said. The change will enable the district to "quickly identify others who might have been exposed if someone has symptoms," Seinfeld said.

In Port Washington, a student at Paul D.
In Port Washington, a student at Paul D. Schreiber High School and another at John J. Daly Elementary School (pictured) tested positive for the coronavirus, prompting the district to close the buildings Tuesday, the district said. Credit: Howard Schnapp
Nassau County Executive Laura Curran said her administration is "closely monitoring all cases and exposures that might impact our school districts."

"We anticipated and prepared for the possibility that there might be an uptick in disease activity as schools reopened," she added. "Our Department of Health, along with our army of contact tracers, have worked diligently to prevent and contain possible spread. Residents are reminded to answer any calls from a contact tracer and cooperate with their requests."

At least five other public schools across Long Island reported positive cases of the virus Monday among students and staff members.
NY easing visit rules on nursing homes
New York State on Tuesday said visits can take place at nursing homes if the facility has gone at least 14 days without a case of COVID-19, down from a threshold of 28 days.

The change means visits will be permitted in about 500 of the state's 613 nursing homes, state officials said. The guidelines go into effect Thursday.

"We understand how trying it has been for New Yorkers to not see their loved ones and the challenges they've had to endure during this unprecedented pandemic," New York Health Commissioner Dr. Howard Zucker said in a statement.