Image
Joseph R. Biden Jr. focused on the dramatic images of fires ripping through forests and destroying homes in a speech on Monday.
Joseph R. Biden Jr. focused on the dramatic images of fires ripping through forests and destroying homes in a speech on Monday.Credit...Erin Schaff/The New York Times
The fires and the hazardous air they have produced have so far been concentrated in Democratic parts of the nation, and, with the exception of Arizona, are not highlighted on the campaign battleground maps in the Biden and Trump headquarters.

ADVERTISEMENT

Continue reading the main story

But Mr. Biden’s advisers, as well as environmentalists who have watched in frustration for years as their issues were relegated to the back of a drawer, believe that the sheer destruction of the fires has further elevated this into a powerful issue.

That is especially true in a season of hurricanes, dramatic temperature fluctuations and wild weather in other parts of the country. As the fires raged, the Gulf Coast was preparing for the arrival of Hurricane Sally and the torrential rains and flooding it would bring.

Mr. Biden has notably framed climate change as one of four simultaneous crises facing the nation, along with the pandemic, the economic downturn and the reckoning over race and policing.

“For the first time, the average American is likely to see climate change as a here, now, us problem,” said Mr. Maibach, who studies public opinion on the environment.

“They saw it as a distant problem,” Mr. Maibach said of voters previously. “Distant in time — maybe 2100 but not today. Distant in space — maybe Bangladesh and not Boston. And distant in species — polar bears, for sure, but not people.”

The climate change debate reflects what has been another critical difference between these two candidates: The value they placed on science-based data. Once again, as with the Covid-19 pandemic, Mr. Trump is denying the assertions of scientists as he seeks to minimize a threat to the nation’s well-being.

That emphasis could face a backlash among suburban voters: 84 percent of suburbanites said in an NPR/PBS NewsHour/Marist College poll last month that they trusted public health experts to provide accurate information on the coronavirus, considerably more than people living in other areas. And just 23 percent of suburbanites said they trusted Mr. Trump’s statements on the virus, the lowest of any geographic group.

ADVERTISEMENT

Continue reading the main story

Ms. Porter, who is one of the freshman suburban Democrats elected in 2018, said that she had seen a huge change in the political environment since Mr. Trump was elected president.

“You now need to explicitly address climate change,” she said. “And this is an important change from like four years ago.”

Mr. Podesta argued that while Mr. Trump has sought to turn climate change into a “culture war issue of the elite versus regular people” — by linking Mr. Biden to aggressive policy proposals like the Green New Deal — that has backfired in the face of the raging wildfires.

“Guess what," Mr. Podesta said, “the regular people are fleeing for their lives in Oregon.”