4. Apple AirPods Pro
Best gifts of 2020: Apple AirPods Pro.
Best gifts of 2020: Apple AirPods Pro. (Photo: Reviewed / Jackson Ruckar)

Last year, Apple AirPods were probably the most coveted products of the holiday season, but this year the upgraded AirPods Pro will be all the rage. They earned our pick as the best truly wireless earphones because Apple somehow managed to make the already amazing AirPods even better. They’ve been fitted with better sound, have incredible noise-cancellation, and are finally water-resistant. What more could your giftee want?

For a less expensive option, you can still gift the original AirPods, which we find to be a good option, just at a lower tier.

Get the Apple AirPods Pro at Amazon for $199
Get the Apple AirPods at Amazon for $129
5. Barefoot Dreams Blanket
Best gifts of 2020: Barefoot Dreams Blanket.
Best gifts of 2020: Barefoot Dreams Blanket. (Photo: Barefoot Dreams)

As we spend more and more time inside as the weather chills, everyone is going to want a throw blanket to cozy up with. The Barefoot Dreams CozyChic Throw Blanket is possibly the most coveted one on the market with even celebrities like Chrissy Teigen, The Kardashians, and Selena Gomez raving about them. They'll be hard to find in select colors (like the popular animal print), so if you want to get it for someone, act sooner than later.

Get the Barefoot Dreams CozyChic Throw Blanket at Nordstrom for $147

6. Airomé Serenity Medium Diffuser
Best gifts of 2020: Airomé Serenity Medium Diffuser.
Best gifts of 2020: Airomé Serenity Medium Diffuser. (Photo: Reviewed / Betsey Goldwasser)

These days we're all looking for new ways to relax and unwind, which is why an aromatherapy diffuser is a great gift for 2020. The Airomé Serenity Medium Diffuser is the best essential oil diffuser we’ve ever tested because not only is it stunning to look at, but we also found it to be easy to operate and clean. It also provides an even scent for up to six hours and is available in several designs to suit your giftee’s decor style.

Get the Airomé Serenity Medium Diffuser at Amazon for $29.74

7. Always Pan
Best gifts of 2020: Always Pan.
Best gifts of 2020: Always Pan. (Photo: Reviewed / Valerie Li Stack)

Cooking is honestly pretty overwhelming these days. There are so many gadgets to choose from and too many pots and pans to wash that sometimes it’s just easier to order take out. But the Always Pan from Our Place claims to replace eight pieces of cookware and can do everything from sautéing, frying, boiling pasta, and so much more. After testing it, our cooking expert loved how versatile it was as well as how absolutely gorgeous it looked with its terracotta finish and Instagrammable vibe.

Get the Always Pan from Our Place for $145

8. Laugh & Learn Grow-the-Fun Garden to Kitchen
Best gifts of 2020: Laugh & Learn Grow-the-Fun Garden to Kitchen
Best gifts of 2020: Laugh & Learn Grow-the-Fun Garden to Kitchen (Photo: Fisher-Price)

Gardening has been one of the hottest hobbies of quarantine and kids can join in on the fun with this garden kitchen from Fisher-Price. Recommend for kids 12 to 36 months, this adorable playset has a garden side and a kitchen side, so kiddos can cook what they "grow." Our parenting editor, Anna Lane, believes this will be a hot item amongst younger kids this year and will probably sell out.

Get the Fisher-Price Laugh & Learn Grow-the-Fun Garden to Kitchen at Target for $79.99