Amid protests around the country centered on racism and police brutality and calls on social media for Americans to take action, books have arisen as an important resource to learn more and support Black-owned businesses.

Reading provides a valuable look at the past and an avenue for continued research when the protests are no longer front-page news.

"A lot of people don't really know the history of why things are the way that they are," City of Los Angeles Director of Branch Library Services Chad Helton told USA TODAY. "What I would recommend is really looking into the scholarship of Black history. That way you can really understand how racism has manifested itself and how it's become structural and institutional. ... All of what is happening is connected to systemic and institutionalized racism." 


As major online book retailers are selling out of books on fighting racism, there are other options for purchasing popular titles and exploring which published works are best for you. Services such as Audible, Apple, Amazon, Google Play, Nook and Libby also provide digital or audio copies for those who prefer or require learning with a different medium. 

Whether you're looking for titles to help expand your knowledge or searching for where to find them, we've rounded up options for beginning or continuing your reading quest:


Nonfiction reads
If you're looking for resources on how to talk about race or to brush up on history and important Black figures, experts say these books are a good place to start. 

“The New Jim Crow: Mass Incarceration in the Age of Colorblindness” by Michelle Alexander is a “great book to read,” because it talks about the systemic problem of the criminal justice system, says Lorenzo Boyd, associate professor of criminal justice, and assistant provost of diversity and inclusion at the University Of New Haven. 

Get the Coronavirus Watch newsletter in your inbox.
Stay safe and informed with updates on the spread of the coronavirus

Delivery: Varies
Your Email
Dr. Beverly Tatum, psychologist and author of "Why Are All the Black Kids Sitting Together in the Cafeteria? And Other Conversations About Race" and "Can We Talk About Race? And Other Conversations About Race in an Era of School Resegregation," recommends checking out "How to Be an Antiracist" by Ibram X. Kendi, "White Fragility: Why It's So Hard for White People to Talk about Racism" by Robin DiAngelo or "Me and White Supremacy" by Layla F. Saad. 

"From Slavery To Freedom: A History of African Americans" by John Hope Franklin offers a comprehensive look at how the foundation of the United States has dictated racism in the present, Helton added. 

Expert recommendations, picks from the best-sellers lists and more: 

"White Fragility: Why It's So Hard for White People to Talk about Racism" by Robin DiAngelo
"How to Be an Antiracist" by Ibram X. Kendi
"Biased: Uncovering the Hidden Prejudice That Shapes What We See, Think, and Do" by Jennifer L. Eberhardt 
"Raising White Kids" by Jennifer Harvey 
"So You Want to Talk About Race" by Ijeoma Oluo 
“The Black and the Blue: A Cop Reveals the Crimes, Racism, and Injustice in America's Law Enforcement" by Matthew Horace and Ron Harris 
"Just Mercy: A Story of Justice and Redemption" by Bryan Stevenson
"The Fire Next Time" by James Baldwin
"Why I’m No Longer Talking to White People About Race" by Reni Eddo-Lodge
"They Can’t Kill Us All: Ferguson, Baltimore, And A New Era In America’s Racial Justice Movement" by Wesley Lowery
"Hood Feminism: Notes From The Women That The Movement Forgot" by Mikki Kendall
"Ain't I a Woman: Black Women and Feminism" by bell hooks
"Open Season: Legalized Genocide of Colored People" by Ben Crump
"From Slavery To Freedom: A History of African Americans" by John Hope Franklin 
"The Third Reconstruction: How a Moral Movement Is Overcoming the Politics of Division and Fear" by Jonathan Wilson-Hartgrove and William Barber II
"Between the World and Me" by Ta-Nehisi Coates
"Stamped: Racism, Antiracism, and You" by Jason Reynolds and Ibram X. Kendi
“The New Jim Crow: Mass Incarceration in the Age of Colorblindness” by Michelle Alexander
"Shifting: The Double Lives of Black Women in America" by USA TODAY reporter Charisse Jones and Dr. Kumea Shorter-Gooden
"Walking with the Wind: A Memoir of the Movement" by John Lewis and Michael D'Orso
"The Burden" edited by USA TODAY Network columnist Rochelle Riley
"Sister Outsider" by Audre Lorde
"This Bridge Called My Back: Writings by Radical Women of Color" edited by Cherríe Moraga and Gloria Anzaldúa 
"Hood Feminism: Notes From The Women That a Movement Forgot" by Mikki Kendall
"The Third Reconstruction: Moral Mondays, Fusion Politics, and the Rise of a New Justice Movement" by Dr. William Barber
"Eloquent Rage: A Black Feminist Discovers Her Superpower" by Brittney Cooper
"When and Where I Enter: The Impact of Black Women on Race and Sex in America" by Paula Giddings
"Black Sexual Politics: African Americans, Gender, and the New Racism" by Patricia Hill Collins

Impactful fiction from Black authors
The learning doesn't stop with nonfiction works. Black authors have made notable and creative contributions to the world of fiction writing over the years, including Pulitzer Prize-winning titles.

Real-world issues are the basis for these best-selling stories: 

"For Colored Girls Who Have Considered Suicide When the Rainbow Is Enuf" by Ntozake Shange
"The Underground Railroad" by Colson Whitehead
"Their Eyes Were Watching God" by Zora Neale Hurston
"Passing" by Nella Larsen
"The Bluest Eye" by Toni Morrison
"Sula" by Toni Morrison
"The Color Purple" by Alice Walker
"White Teeth" by Zadie Smith
"An American Marriage" by Tayari Jones
"The Vanishing Half" by Brit Bennett 
"Things Fall Apart" by Chinua Achebe
"Such a Fun Age" by Kiley Reid
"The Nickel Boys" by Colson Whitehead
