Instead, they want to turn the United States into a European-style social democracy, with a much more expansive social welfare system and much more heavily regulated labor and capital markets. And a greater government role in directing the economy.

Ironically, the more successful European social democracies have liberated their labor and capital markets, and increased reliance on markets, rather than government, to direct their economies.

It's about identity, grievance politics 
There’s another fundamental change Democrats are committed to: They are determined to embed identity and grievance politics throughout American government, economy and society.


The aspiration of a colorblind meritocracy would be abandoned. A government role in trying to create more equality of opportunity would be passé. The Democratic platform flatly states that “race-neutral policies are not sufficient to rectify race-based disparities.”

Instead the role of government would be to dictate equality of outcomes. There would be de facto quotas in government and for government programs. And de facto quotas imposed on the private sector though the administrative state.

This isn't just a referendum on Trump
The Don’t-Like-Trumpers can’t count on the usual Washingtonian inertia to stall out this agenda until the next election. Democrats are also committed to changing the political playing field to clear the way for the fundamental changes they are advocating and increase the odds of making them permanent.

Biden has said that he is open to eliminating the virtual filibuster in the Senate that would thwart much of this. The virtual filibuster should go. But that increases the risks of a Biden presidency for the Don’t-Like-Trumpers.

Biden says he’s against stacking the U.S. Supreme Court. But he said he was against changing the filibuster rule until recently.

He, and the Democratic Party, are committed to statehood for Washington, D.C., and perhaps Puerto Rico. That would establish additional Democratic strongholds in the Senate and the Electoral College.

For the Don’t-Like-Trumpers, this election could have been a simple referendum on Trump’s conduct in office. But the Democrats have made it about much more than that.
Robert Robb is an editorial columnist for The Arizona Republic and azcentral.com, where this column originally appeared. Follow him on Twitter: @RJRobb
It’s been said that you should never attribute to malice what can be explained by stupidity. So I will take President Donald Trump at his word when he says he played down the threat of the coronavirus because he didn't want to "create a panic.” Unfortunately, that makes Trump look worse, not better.
This isn’t leadership. It’s not even a parody of leadership. The three rules of crisis communications are: Be first. Be right. Be credible. In a crisis, a good leader lays out the facts, follows that up with a comprehensive plan, and then reassures everyone that, while it isn’t going to be easy, we are going to pull together and beat this. That’s not the way President Trump does things though. In his mind, leadership is just like selling over-priced condos and calls for smoke and happy talk rather than honesty: "What we're doing is we're leading, and we're leading in a proper way." Trump’s idea of leadership in a crisis is pretending that no crisis exists.