At least five public schools in Nassau County were closed Tuesday because of confirmed cases of COVID-19 among students, while the state announced it is relaxing rules for visiting nursing homes.

Meanwhile, six states and one territory were removed from the list of areas from which travelers to New York must self-quarantine for two weeks upon arrival, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo said Tuesday, though Puerto Rico was added back.

California, Hawaii, Maryland, Minnesota, Nevada and Ohio, as well as the Northern Mariana Islands, were taken off the state's travel advisory list because their levels of infection dropped.

Five schools in two districts — Port Washington and Oyster Bay-East Norwich — were closed Tuesday due to the COVID-19 cases.


Paul Rudd encourages millennials to wear a mask in PSA for NY
Wednesday's forecast: Mostly sunny, high near 72 forecast
MOMMAs house in Glen Cove helps homeless mothers
4 killed, 2 hurt in wrong-way crash on Southern State, police say
Hero truck operator honored for saving motorist's life on LIE
"Islip Goes Purple" campaign promotes awareness of substance abuse
Rosh Hashanah and the coronavirus
Curran, Bellone discuss COVID-19's impact on LI businesses
Tuesday forecast: Clear skies with high of 68 today
Schumer seeks federal aid to keep live venues afloat
East End farmers talk challenges and how state can help
De Blasio addresses plans for Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade
Glen Cove preps for new school year
Monday's forecast: Humid, highs in upper 70s
Michael DelGuidice protests banning of live music events
Nassau's first-ever water bark event at Eisenhower Park
Man's body found in Jamesport house fire
SBU announces Peace Corps Prep program
Bus monitor retires because of pandemic risks
Police officer who had coronavirus home after 168 days
Remembering 9/11 first responders
Paul Rudd encourages millennials to wear a mask in PSA for NY
New York State released a PSA — the latest "Mask Up, America" campaign — a video featuring actor Paul Rudd urging millennials to wear a mask.  Credit: New York State

In Port Washington, a student at Paul D. Schreiber High School and another at John J. Daly Elementary School tested positive for the virus, prompting the district to close the buildings Tuesday, according to a letter from Superintendent Michael Hynes. Students and staff from those schools were placed on remote instruction plans for the day, he said.

The Nassau County Health Department initiated a contact-tracing investigation, Hynes said, and he later announced in a letter to families that the two Port Washington schools could reopen Wednesday for regularly scheduled in-person instruction.

From our family to yours:
In times like this, nothing is more important than keeping Long Islanders safe and informed. We're unlocking this article for all and giving you an offer for our best rate for a digital subscription.

SUBSCRIBE FOR 5¢ A WEEK
Limited time offer. Cancel anytime

"I ask that you please continue to monitor your child[ren] closely for any sign of potential illness and complete the district’s student health screening each morning prior to the start of school," Hynes said.

The high school has been operating under a hybrid plan while the elementary schools in the district were following an in-person instruction plan five days a week.

A student at each of three schools in the Oyster Bay-East Norwich district has tested positive for the virus, Superintendent Laura Seinfeld said.