Anne (Olivia Colman) cares for her father Anthony (Anthony Hopkins) as he struggles with dementia in the drama "The Father."
4. 'The Father'
Anthony Hopkins delivers one of his best performances in years with this affecting character study of a man losing his sense of reality because of dementia. Florian Zeller directs an adaptation of his 2012 play, which casts Hopkins as an aging Londoner cared for by his daughter (Olivia Colman). He flirts with his new home-care nurse (Imogen Poots), but becomes increasingly confused about where he lives and who's around him. Zeller lends psychological horror to the proceedings and Hopkins runs through a gamut of emotions, from petty anger to child-like vulnerability, as his character tries to figure things out – with a mystery element revealing itself in a touching manner.

Frances McDormand stars as a woman who lives the RV life on the road after the loss of her husband and town in "Nomadland."
3. ‘Nomadland’
Zhao’s drama focuses on Baby Boomers who hit the road for an unconventional life in vans and RVs after the Great Recession of the 2000s. Turning in a reserved but splendid performance, McDormand stars as Fern, a 61-year-old who, after her husband died and their Nevada town went belly up, now goes where the work is – be it an Amazon Fulfillment Center in Nebraska or a food-service gig at South Dakota’s tourist-friendly Wall Drug Store – and forms a mobile family with fellow nomads. They take care of each other and give tips on stealth parking as well as the best buckets to double as portable toilets, and because she’s also cast real-life people who embrace this existence, Zhao’s film oozes authenticity.

Shia LaBeouf and Vanessa Kirby play a married couple who have to deal with a tragic home birth in the family drama "Pieces of a Woman."
2. 'Pieces of a Woman'
Vanessa Kirby and Shia LaBeouf both turn in career-best performances – and Kirby cements herself as a bonafide Oscar contender – in Hungarian director Kornél Mundruczó's deeply emotional family drama. A home birth for Boston couple Martha (Kirby) and Shawn (LaBeouf) turns tragic - perhaps by the hands of the midwife (Molly Parker) - and in the ensuing months as a criminal case is built against her, the grieving husband and wife grow apart: She isolates herself from loved ones and he rekindles an old battle with booze and drugs. Kirby's a revelation in a moving role, and Mundruczó beautifully crafts a harrowing birth sequence and a brutal family get-together pitting Martha vs. her mom (played by a great Ellen Burstyn).

Leslie Odom Jr. (far left) stars as Sam Cooke, Eli Goree plays Cassius Clay, Kingsley Ben-Adir is Malcolm X and Aldis Hodge is Jim Brown in Regina King's feature directorial debut "One Night in Miami."
1. 'One Night in Miami'
Regina King's amazing feature directorial debut is simply one of the best movies of the year. "One Night," Kemp Powers' adaptation of his stage play, imagines the conversations had by four Black icons (and friends) – boxer Cassius Clay (Eli Goree), football superstar Jim Brown (Aldis Hodge), civil-rights activist Malcolm X (Kingsley Ben-Adir) and soul singer Sam Cooke (Leslie Odom Jr.) – the night a 22-year-old Clay won the heavyweight title in 1964. The acting is outstanding across the board, and King's greatest feat is showing these larger-than-life figures as wholly human, talking, laughing and arguing about race, religion, power and their own insecurities.